FEDERATIVE REPUBLIC OF BRAZIL INTENDED NATIONALLY DETERMINED CONTRIBUTION TOWARDS ACHIEVING THE OBJECTIVE OF THEUNITED NATIONS FRAMEWORK CONVENTION ON CLIMATE CHANGE

Pursuant to decisions 1/CP.19 and 1/CP.20, the Government of the Federative Republic of Brazil is pleased to communicate to the Secretariat of the United Nations Framework Convention    on    Climate    Change    (UNFCCC)its    intended    Nationally    Determined Contribution  (iNDC)  in  the  context  of the  negotiations  of a  protocol,  another  legal instrumentor an agreed outcome with legal force under the Convention applicable to all Parties.

This intended contribution is communicated under the assumption of the adoption of a universal, legally binding instrument that fully respects the principles and provisions of the  UNFCCC,  in  particular  the  principle  of  common  but  differentiated  responsibilities and  respective  capabilities.  It  is  "intended" in  the  sense  that  it  might  be  adjusted,  as appropriate, before  the  ratification,  acceptance  or  approval  of  the Paris agreement in light of provisions yet to be agreed under the ADP mandate.

All policies, measures and actions to implement Brazil’s iNDC arecarriedoutunder the National Policy  on Climate  Change (Law  12,187/2009),  the  Law  on  the  Protection  of Native Forests (Law 12,651/2012, hereinafter referredasForest Code), the Law on the National    System    of    Conservation    Units    (Law    9,985/2000), related    legislation , instruments   and   planning   processes.   The Government   of Brazil   is   committed   to implementingits   iNDC   with   full respect   to   human   rights, in   particular rights of vulnerable communities, indigenous populations, traditional communities and workers in  sectors  affected  by  relevant  policies  and  plans, while  promoting gender responsive measures.

Brazil’s  iNDC  has  a  broad scope   including   mitigation,   adaptation   and   means   of implementation,  consistent  with  the contributions’ purpose  to  achieve  the  ultimate objective  of  the  Convention,  pursuant  to  decision  1/CP.20,  paragraph  9(Lima Call  for Climate Action).

MITIGATION:
Contribution:  Brazil  intends  to  commit  to  reduce greenhouse  gas emissions  by 37% below 2005levels in 2025.

Subsequent indicative contribution: reduce greenhouse  gas emissions  by 43%  below 2005 levels in 2030.Type: absolute target in relation to a base year.

Coverage: 100%    oftheterritory, economy-wide,    including    CO2,    CH4,    N2O, perfluorocarbons, hydrofluorocarbons and SF6.

Reference point: 2005.

Timeframe:   single-year   target for 2025;   indicative   values   for   2030   for   reference purposes only

Metric: 100 year Global Warming Potential (GWP-100), using IPCC AR5 values.

Methodological  approaches,  including  those  for  estimating  and  accounting  for anthropogenic  greenhouse  gas  emissions  and,  as  appropriate,  removals : inventory based approach for estimating and accounting anthropogenic greenhouse gasemissions and, as appropriate, removals in accordance with the applicable IPCC guidelines.

This  iNDC  takes  into  account  the  role  of  conservation  units  and  indigenous  lands1as forest   managed   areas,   in   accordance   with   the   applicable IPCC   guidelines   on   the estimation of emission removals.

Useof markets: Brazil reserves its position in relation to the possible use of any market mechanisms that may be established under the Paris agreement.

Brazil   emphasizes   that   any transfer   of   units resulting   from   mitigation   outcomes achieved  in  the  Brazilian  territory will  be  subject  to prior and  formal consent  by  the Federal Government.

Brazil willnot recognize the use by other Parties of any units resulting from mitigation outcomes  achieved  in the  Brazilian territory  that  have  been  acquired  through  any mechanism,  instrument or arrangementestablished  outside the  Convention,  its  Kyoto Protocolor its Paris agreement.

ADAPTATION UNDERTAKINGS 

Brazil  considers  adaptation  to  be  a  fundamental  elementof  the  global  effort  to  tackle climate change and its effects. The implementation of policies and measures to adapt to climate    change    contributesto    building    resilience    of    populations,    ecosystems, infrastructure  and  production  systems,  by  reducing  vulnerability and  throughthe provision of ecosystem services.

The  social  dimension  is  at  the  core  of  Brazil's  adaptation  strategy,  bearing  in  mind  the need to protect vulnerable populations from the negative effects of climate change and enhance resilience. In  this  context, Brazil  is  working  on  the  design  of  new  public policies,  through  its  National  Adaptation  Plan (NAP), in  its  final  elaboration  phase.  The strong involvement of stakeholders, at all  levels, will contribute to the formulation and implementation of Brazil's NAP.

The NAPaims to implement knowledge management systems, to promote research and technology  development  for  adaptation,  to  develop  processes  and  tools  in  support of adaptation actions   and   strategies,   at different   levels   of   government. Brazil   is   a developing country  thatexperienced  a  fast  urbanization  process.  In  this  context,  risk areas,housing,  basic  infrastructure,  especially  in  the  areasofhealth,sanitation  and transportation,constitute  key  areas  for  adaptation  policies.  The  Government  of  Brazil gives particular  attention  to  the poorest  populations,  in  terms  of  improving  their housing  and  living  conditions,  bolstering  their  capacity  to  withstand  the  effects  of severe   climate   events. Brazil   already   monitor sextreme   rainfall   events   for   888 municipalities and has in place an early warning system and action plans to respond to natural disasters.

It  should  be  further  noted  that  Brazil  seeks  to  enhance  its  national  capacity  in  water security   (National   Water   Security   Plan)   and   conservation and   sustainable   use   of biodiversity ( National Strategic Plan for Protected Areas, as well as the implementation of the Forest Code, particularly concerning protected areas ).The National Adaptation Plan will provide a basis for Brazil to strengthen the country's adaptation  capacity,  assess  climate  risksand  managevulnerabilities at  the  national, state   and   municipal   levels.   Through   the   NAP,   Brazil's   vision   forits   adaptation undertakings is   to   integrate,   where   appropriate,   vulnerabilities   and   climate   risk management  into public  policies  and  strategies,  as  well  as  to  enhance the coherence  of national and local development strategies with adaptation measures

MEANS OF IMPLEMENTATION

Clarification    on    the    extent    to    which    the    contribution    is    dependent    upon international support

This iNDCis   presented   in   accordance   with   the   principles   and   provisions   of   the Convention,  particularly  Article  4,  paragraphs  1  and  7,  and  Article  12,  paragraphs 1(b) and 4. 

Accordingly,  the  policies,  measures  and  actions  to  achievethis  contribution  will  be implemented without prejudice to the use of the financial mechanism of the Convention or  of any other  modalities  of  international cooperation  and support , with  a  view  to enhance effectiveness and/or anticipate implementation . The   implementation   of Brazil’s iNDC is not contingent upon international  support,  yet it welcome ssupport from developed countries with a view to generate global benefits.

Additional actions would  demand  large-scale increase  of international  support  and investment   flows,   as   well   as technology development,   deployment,   diffusion   and transfer.

Specifically concerning the forest sector,  the  implementation  of REDD+  activities and the  permanence of  results achievedrequirethe  provision,  on  a  continuous  basis , of adequate  and  predictable  results-based payments in  accordance  with  the  relevant  COP decisions.

South-South initiatives

Recognizing   the   complementary   role   of   South-South   cooperation,   on   the   basis   of solidarity  and  common  sustainable  development  priorities, Brazil will undertake best efforts  to  enhance cooperation  initiativeswith  other  developing  countries,  particularly in  the areas  of:forest  monitoring  systems; biofuels  capacity-building  and  technology transfer; low  carbon  and  resilient  agriculture;restoration  and reforestation activities ; management  of protected  areas ; increased  resilience  through  social  inclusion  and protection   programmes ; capacity building for national communications and other obligations under the Convention , in particular to Portuguese speaking countries . Brazil  invites  developed  country  Parties  and  relevant  international  organizations  to further support such initiatives.

Recalling that the submission of forest reference emission levels and their corresponding REDD+ results are in the context of results based payments, in accordance with decisions 13/CP.19 and 14/CP.19. See also documents FCCC/TAR/2014/BRAandFCCC/SBI/ICA/2015/TATR.1/BRA.


FEDERATIVE REPUBLIC OF BRAZIL
ADDITIONAL INFORMATION ON THE INDC
FOR CLARIFICATION PURPOSES ONLY

Brazil’s iNDC is economy  wide and  therefore  is  based  on  flexible  pathways  to achieve the 2025 and the 2030 objectives . In that sense , this additional information is meant to be for clarification purposes only. 

Consistent with the long - term vision of holding the increase in global average temperature below 2°C above pre-industrial levels , Brazil will strive for a transition towards energy system sbased on renewable sources and the decarbonization of the global economy by the end of the century,in thecontext of sustainable development and access to the financial and technological means necessary for this transition.

FAIRNESS AND AMBITION


Brazil is a developing country with several challenges regarding poverty eradication , education , public health, employment, housing, infrastructure and energy access. In spite of these challenges, Brazil’s current actions in the global effort against climate change represent one of the largest undertakings by any single country to date, having reduced its emissions by 41% (GWP-100; IPCC SAR) in 2012 in relation to 2005 levels.

Brazil is nevertheless willing to further enhance its contribution towards achieving the
objective of the Convention, in the context of sustainable development. Brazil’s iNDC
represents a progression in relation to its current undertakings, in both the type and
levels of ambition, while recognizing that emissions will grow to meet social and
development needs.

By adopting an economy-wide, absolute mitigation target, Brazil will follow a more
stringent modality of contribution, compared to its voluntary actions pre-2020. This
contribution is consistent with emission levels of 1.3 GtCO2e (GWP-100; IPCC AR5) in
2025 and 1.2 GtCO2e (GWP-100; IPCC AR5) in 2030, corresponding, respectively, to a reduction of 37% and 43%, based on estimated emission levels of 2.1 GtCO2e (GWP-
100; IPCC AR5) in 2005.

Brazil has 15.5 million people living below the poverty line, of which 6.2 million live in extreme poverty (2013). Source: MDS. Data
Social 2.0. Available at http://aplicacoes.mds.gov.br/sagi-data/METRO/metro.php?p_id=4, accessed on 24 September 2015.
2 Source: MCTI. Estimativas anuais de emissões de gases de efeito estufa no Brasil. Second edition (2014). Available at
http://www.mct.gov.br/upd_blob/0235/235580.pdf, accessed on 2 September 2015

In relation to Brazil’s existing national voluntary commitment, which aims to achieve
gross emissions3 of approximately 2 GtCO2e4 in 2020, this iNDC represents an additional
gross reduction of approximately 19% in 2025. Furthermore, this contribution is
consistent with reductions of 6% in 2025 and 16% in 2030 below 1990 levels (1.4
GtCO2e GWP-100; IPCC AR5).

Brazil’s iNDC corresponds to an estimated reduction of 66% in terms of greenhouse gas
emissions per unit of GDP (emissions intensity5) in 2025 and of 75% in terms of
emissions intensity in 2030, both in relation to 2005.

In the period 2004-2012, Brazil's GDP increased by 32%, while emissions dropped 52%
(GWP-100; IPCC AR5), delinking economic growth from emission increase over the
period, while at the same time Brazil lifted more than 23 million people out of poverty.

Per capita emissions decreased from 14.4 tCO2e (GWP-100; IPCC AR5) in 2004 to an
estimated 6.5 tCO2e (GWP-100; IPCC AR5) in 2012. At this 2012 level, Brazil's per capita
emissions are already equivalent to what some developed countries have considered
fair and ambitious for their average per capita emissions by 2030. Brazil's per capita
emissions will decline further to an estimated 6.2 tCO2e (GWP-100; IPCC AR5) in 2025
and 5.4 tCO2e (GWP-100; IPCC AR5) in 2030 under this contribution.

Brazil will reduce greenhouse gas emissions in the context of continued population8 and
GDP growth, as well as income per capita increase, making therefore this contribution
unequivocally very ambitious.

Brazil's mitigation actions to implement this contribution, including its current
undertakings, are consistent with the 2°C temperature goal, in light of IPCC scenarios
and national circumstances.

According to the IPCC9, global scenarios consistent with a likely chance to keep
temperature change below 2°C relative to pre-industrial levels are characterized, inter
alia, by:

i) sustainable use of bioenergy;
ii) large-scale measures relating to land use change and forests;
iii) tripling to nearly quadrupling the share of zero- and low-carbon energy
supply globally by the year 2050.

In this context, Brazil already has one of the largest and most successful biofuel
programs to date, including cogeneration of electricity using biomass. Brazil has
achieved the most impressive results of any country in reducing emissions from
deforestation, mainly by reducing the deforestation rate in the Brazilian Amazonia by
82% between 2004 and 2014. Brazil’s energy mix today consists of 40% of renewables
(75% of renewables in its electricity supply), which amounts to three times the world
average in renewables, and more than four times the OECD average.10 This already
qualifies Brazil as a low carbon economy

Brazil intends to adopt further measures that are consistent with the 2°C temperature
goal, in particular:

i) increasing the share of sustainable biofuels in the Brazilian energy mix to
approximately 18% by 2030, by expanding biofuel consumption, increasing
ethanol supply, including by increasing the share of advanced biofuels (second
generation), and increasing the share of biodiesel in the diesel mix;

ii) in land use change and forests:
- strengthening and enforcing the implementation of the Forest Code, at
federal, state and municipal levels;
- strengthening policies and measures with a view to achieve, in the Brazilian
Amazonia, zero illegal deforestation by 2030 and compensating for
greenhouse gas emissions from legal suppression of vegetation by 2030;
- restoring and reforesting 12 million hectares of forests by 2030, for multiple
purposes;
- enhancing sustainable native forest management systems, through
georeferencing and tracking systems applicable to native forest management,
with a view to curbing illegal and unsustainable practices;