More investments in: i) development of good sustainability practices in society in general (schools, companies), for example, recycling; ii ) development and use of alternative renewable energy sources (biofuels, biomass, wind and solar energy); awareness programs for the population regarding the effects of climate change on their daily lives and the need to preserve the environment and engage in mitigation and adaptation actions.
 
Brazil has all the requirements to take an active, efficient and intrinsic contribution to this action, in addition to serving as an example for the whole world. With that, no effort should be spared, both domestically and internationally.



Encourage debate on the topic, stimulate public opinion and the formulation of public policies, call on civil society for joint action, establish solid cooperation ties with states and international organizations working in the same direction, pressure the congress to think more on the subject, create channels of information, communication and cooperation with the first and second sectors (agricultural and industrial producers) in short, these are some examples of how Brazil can mitigate its performance.
 
 
 
The transport sector in Brazil should be regulated to achieve zero emissions or low carbon economy by 2050 with the entire national public transport fleet. State and municipal concessions should not be open to public bidding without a "green stamp" for electric buses, biogas, natural gas and biofuel. Entrepreneurs in the sector must be called to the fore by the Federal Government which, with a national directive, allows states and municipalities to follow the regulations.
 
I believe that mitigation actions should consider spatial readings on a local scale. Before saying what to do, you need to know more about the places (biotic and abiotic). The world of places is full of particularities, which together - send us the reading of the whole in a more just and balanced way.
 
 
 
Brazil must continue with its mitigation effort, not taking economic factors into account, since the environmental benefit is worth much more.
Brazil can cooperate much more to mitigate its emissions.
Brazil should continue to focus on emission reductions linked to land use (which is the largest Brazilian contribution factor), but it should start preparing to also expand mitigation actions to other sectors in the coming decades. For that, it would be necessary to proceed with the Industrial Plan and obtain data on the level of industrial activity through a record of emissions, as several developing countries (eg China and Turkey) and developed countries already do. Thus, it will be possible to maintain the high level of " readiness " that Brazil already has in terms of land use, also in the industrial sector.
 
 
 
 
I would like the plastic and PET industry to be a priority for these actions. The government should demand from the sector more sustainable alternatives in relation to these two products.
 
 
 
Brazilian efforts to mitigate climate change must be made on an ongoing basis, as it is a problem that cannot be addressed in the short term.
 
 
Land use mitigation is substantial but the baseline is arbitrary. It could have been the average of the last 5 years in 2009. It should not be used to justify little action in other sectors, notably energy. The PDEs EPE need to be revised accordingly, preventing the lock in infrastructural and loss of competitiveness of key economic sectors, such as bioenergy. The discourse of historical responsibilities used by Brazil can not be sustained under the perspective of carbon budgets , something around 1GtCO2e / year between 2010 and 2050. Our economy is increasingly carbon intensive, a risk to its competitiveness in the face of trade barriers . The goals for 2020 need to be revised considering both baselines and sector plans. The pricing carbon must cease to be taboo in the country. REDD would never prosper 'without this measure.
 
 
 
1) It is necessary to reduce emissions in the electricity sector, between 2008 and 2012 emissions in this sector INCREASED by 35%. Large-scale use of solar energy could be a way to minimize this problem.

2 ) It is important to make commitments to increase efficiency so that, on average, each unit of product generated is less energy-intensive and each unit of energy is less carbon-intensive.
It is not possible to perceive an efficient articulation between the proposed / approved Policies and the legislative changes (ex .: New Forest Code. There is no care with the effect of legislative changes and their effect on emissions . The existing environmental protection legislation is not obeyed, when it comes to the internal legislative process, internal oversight is also inefficient and institutionally unstructured.
Question 1- Brazil has in fact managed to reduce its emissions from deforestation substantially, and this must be recognized. However, the country has the necessary capacity and responsibility to further reduce emissions in the land use change and forestry sector, as well as in all other sectors.

Question 2 - In addition to the collective benefits of mitigation action being enormous, with positive impacts on health, food security and reduction of extreme events, for example, in the long run, the economic impacts will be even greater if no action is taken now. Brazil has emissions per capita and income per capita above the world average , and needs to fulfill its responsibility to reduce emissions. There are several actions that can, at the same time, bring benefits to the economy, such as improving energy efficiency, developing leadership in low carbon industries and technologies, among others. 

Question 3 - The goal of reducing or limiting emissions for the economy as a whole in relation to one year is necessary, but it should be guided by realistic reduction targets by sector, which should be used as a strategy to reach the goal of the whole economy. This target must also be based on future projections, emissions per capita and historical responsibilities.

Question 4 - Multiple periods with specific targets for 2025 and 2030. In addition to these two targets, it is extremely important that there is a process of review of the targets and " ratcheingup " so that the 2ºC limit is not reached. Early-action measures are absolutely necessary before the treaty is implemented.
Mitigation must be seen from an integrated perspective, increasing the number of protected areas, especially in the oceans. By reducing emissions and increasing our CO2 sequestration capacity, increasing the areas of mangroves, salt marshes, grass banks and seaweed ( rhodolith banks ), we will in the medium and long term mitigate the effects of CO2 in the atmosphere. In order for these roles to be more adequately estimated, we lack experimental infrastructure, so that the areas and environmental combinations that lead to optimal kidnapping conditions must be estimated,
 
 
 
 
 
 
My answer Question 1 (5th option) should be combined with the 2nd option, but not in the sense of waiting others but to negotiate the transfer of technology and resources.
 
 
 
The national contribution should recognize the failure - in practice - of market mechanisms such as emissions rights trading. It is recommended, in view of the constant reiteration in the negotiations, to include more market mechanisms for a critical analysis of the current structural crisis of the EU-ETS.

(See for example international civil society arguments and campaign

http: // scrap-the euets.makenoise.org/KV/ declaration -scrap- ets - english /)
.
 
In the face of environmental problems, it is always relevant to act progressively, since the ecological accumulation of centuries of human impacts (in multiple sectors) cannot be resolved in the short term, however efficient the countries' measures may be, especially for Brazil.



On the other hand, the Brazilian State has been going through a shady period of devaluation of environmental achievements in the normative scope, which even contradicts the jusambientalist principle of prohibiting the regression of environmental law (in the administrative and legislative scope).



On the other hand, there is a lack of materialization of specific legal rules that require the provision of information on environmental issues.



Still, the lack of efficient implementation of Environmental Education, at all levels of education, in formal and non-formal education (see Letter from Brasília, 2013, prepared at an annual event of APRODAB - Association of Environmental Law Teachers of Brazil), makes it difficult the formation of environmental citizens and individuals-subjects capable of dealing with environmental issues in homeland (see, for example, dissertation by Fernando de Azevedo Alves Brito, UESB, 2013, entitled "The environmental perception of teachers and students and Environmental Education at Faculdade X: a case study in Southwest Bahia "), including those related to global warming.

CF / 88, in its art. 225, caput, implicitly established the principle of cooperation between the Government and the community, precisely because both, alone, would be unable to ensure an ecologically balanced environment for present and future generations. Unilateral state measures to combat global warming, without support, inspection and popular control (effective, that is, constant, intense, conscious) will not lead to any previously planned result, in addition to being unconstitutional.



It is therefore necessary to refine, enhance and optimize public actions braisleiras made so far (by more efficient than ever may seem) in parallel to the stimulation of contribution / cooperation of the community (even in control of the government), which only it can be done by providing full and complete information on environmental actions and compliance with international and national Environmental Education standards.



It should be noted that the main scholars on the topic, who represent the overwhelming majority of researchers (in Brazil and worldwide) agree that the potential impacts of the lack of global action outweigh any economic losses. This is because the cumulative environmental damage, if not tackled at the height and in time, may trigger the compromise of the tenuous line of planetary balance that makes healthy existence or simply human existence viable and, consequently , of its economic activities and all others.



In addition, the sharp change in the planet's climate can generate economic losses much greater than the worst forecasts.



To avoid this, it is necessary to carry out mixed approaches, adapted to each social / economic context, but which never characterize privileges / favors, but which are limited to the consolidation of the so-called material or substantial equality. The reality is too complex to be worked out in a homogeneous / Cartesian / mechanistic way; however, this camplexity cannot justify the " suicidal " paralysis or deferral of required actions. Let us not forget that not being human without an ecologically balanced environment, let alone economics as we understand it, so that the argument that environmental measures compromise the economy is not valid in the long run, or analyzing the integrated human panorama .



Between the excessively long (2050) and short (2025) period, I understand that 2030 is a reasonable period for the timeframe of this collaboration, as long as current and new measures are implemented efficiently from the present.
 
The main areas are three: 1) high-risk urban areas in large and medium-sized cities. Special attention should be given to medium-sized cities for which there is an expectation of high growth in the coming decades 2) Family farming: with low adaptive capacity and high sensitivity, the sector is one of the most vulnerable to climate change in Brazil. In the semi-arid region , for example, the paradigm of living with the semi-arid region brings together an adaptive range of high potential and which, within an adaptation strategy, could be institutionalized in all its dimensions (today, only the water security programs). In this context, the great challenge is the poor quality of ATER in Brazil 3) Energy sector: due to the high dependence on the hydroelectric matrix, the Brazilian energy sector is highly vulnerable to the climate, as was evident in the energy crises in dry years in the last 15 years . Along with the increased demand for energy, the energy sector is one of the most vulnerable to climate change. In this sense, seeking to diversify the energy sector through clean sources, such as solar and wind, is not only a benefit for mitigation efforts, but also adaptive.
Coastal areas are a concern because the rise in the average sea level will affect infrastructure and equipment and for that, sectors and governments must be prepared. Another area of ​​concern is the environmental security governance required for disasters and the resilience of the most vulnerable places.
Changes, transformations and adaptations can only be successfully developed with a strong network of education and knowledge production - We must start at home, at school ... without this, there is no global justification to support the involvement of its component parts.
The social and health areas.
Brazil is not adapted to deal with the impacts of climate change in any sector. However, vulnerable and excluded groups in the population will be the most affected.
As demonstrated by different studies ( eg . Nobre et al, 1991; Coe et al, 2013; Pires et al., 2014), land use change and climate change must directly interfere in the rainfall regime in Brazilian territory. In view of the close relationship between rainfall and agriculture, it is essential to monitor and consider reducing deforestation as central to the sustainability of agribusiness in the coming decades.
In my view, the area of ​​education is the biggest obstacle to the progress of the National Adaptation Plan.
the deforestation of Brazilian forests , especially in the Amazon , which makes Brazilian efforts to mitigate climate change and global warming become vulnerable internationally, taking into account that deforestation corresponds to more than half of the country's emissions . Brazil, like Costa Rica did in 2007, can adopt the same strategies adopted by a country that intends to achieve carbon neutrality in 2021, among the country's strategies are the planting of trees to absorb emissions, in the year of 2007 in Costa Rica 5 million new trees were planted, the country also adopts tax incentives for landowners who manage their resources with a view to carbon sequestration and protection of biodiversity, the country also adopts a tax on fuels for environmental purposes.
financing adaptation with funds proportional to the impacts
Family farming in the semi-arid northeastern region
 
1) Semi-arid , where a large part of the poorest and most socially vulnerable population is still concentrated.

2) Urban centers where it would be necessary to reorganize land use in regions most vulnerable to extreme weather events. 
 
The Adaptation Working Group related to the National Adaptation Plan has 9 subgroups that must have the effective participation of representatives of civil society and an effective discussion with different sectors and grassroots organizations. The main areas of greatest concern, such as water, biodiversity, food security, energy, etc. , therefore, are already covered. Our greatest concern today, then, is the fact that the Adaptation Plan must be concluded with effective participation by civil society, which includes all the diversity of the country, including minority groups such as youth and indigenous people. Such a plan must also consider strategies that consider alternatives that promote forest and biodiversity conservation, increasing its resilience to Brazilian society and the populations that depend on natural resources for their survival. It is expected that this year a first version of this Plan will be finalized and that it will be presented and discussed at the international level with a view to it being presented at the Paris COP as yet another national contribution to the international process, establishing a direct dialogue between the different areas .
We must adapt to the warming and acidification of the oceans, since these processes are practically irreversible and will produce specific demands for fishing and aquaculture.
Mitigation measures are necessary mainly for the poorest classes of the Brazilian and world population, as these are the most affected by extreme events in the climate.
The 2nd option is meaningless without the 4th: a national adaptation strategy expressed in a plan, discussed with the various sectors of society and spheres of government and a rigorous system for monitoring impacts for periodic adaptations of the national strategy
I believe that energy and food security are crucial points that must be addressed in an adaptation plan. I understand that energy security, which in our case is closely linked to water security, should be treated more carefully, since water is wasted and the right of use in many cases is given by default, without due study of availability. Regarding food security, it can be ensured through studies of genetic improvements for certain types of crops, adapting them to the new climate reality.
Brazil should present something beyond objectives. The objectives have already been discussed worldwide since the 1970s, and nationally since the 1980s (like Law 6.938 / 81 and CF / 88). At this point, presenting objectives means, forgiving the word, admitting that we are failures in the environmental field, that we are not able to present concrete actions, preferably successful ones, as well as new proposals and, ideally, new technologies or techniques.



Monitoring of observed impacts, too, is nothing more than a preparatory act for an isolated or concatenated action that should be successful.

The presentation of best practices is interesting, but what next? Are these practices adopted on a national scale with public support or incentive or isolated by private initiative?

The adaptation plan or strategy can be adopted, but only on a complementary basis.

I believe that the Brazilian State should be bolder and defend the breaking of patents for clean technologies. If something similar has happened in the face of HIV control drugs, it can be done for environmental issues. The principle is the same as the defense of human life; in addition to the ecologically balanced environment, which is a 3rd generation human right, provided for in numerous international treaties, agreements and conventions.

An alternative to breaking patents would be the signing of an international treaty to reduce the validity of patents. It could be, worldwide, just 5 to 10 years old, before it became public domain. This would encourage the reproduction and improvement of these technologies in all countries of the globe, especially the poorest and developing countries.

The contribution of all countries to a specific international fund to finance the development of new clean technologies, which are already in the public domain, is interesting and could be defended by Brazil.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Climate change needs to be observed under the different dimensions that I assumed, sometimes as a natural phenomenon , sometimes as a geopolitical phenomenon. Here, there are no distinctions and the questions lose their scientific meaning to some extent and enter political debates that can only be answered through capital. We have other resources to tackle climate change without excessive or inappropriate funding.
 
 
 
 
 
In order to counteract the tendency of developed countries to restrict access to technologies, Brazil should serve as an example and encourage South-South technology transfer initiatives , especially in the areas of remote sensing and agriculture.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The ideal for Brazil's contribution to a new agreement is to prioritize mitigation actions that are the result of efficient measures that result in greater economic and social development.
 
 
 
Emerging countries are differentiated developing countries and must behave in their climate diplomacy as they behave commercially .
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The fight against climate change cannot be a strategy dependent on international resources, since the consequences of the lack of strategy will affect everyone. Nor should it be a tributary of actions to combat poverty, since poverty can be increased due to climate change. In this sense, strategies for mitigating and adapting to climate change should be seen as, in themselves, measures for social development and combating poverty.
 
- In the first issue I see no substantial difference between options 3) and 4)

- On the second item would need to emphasize more the issue of technology transfer

- At the 3rd question it should be emphasized that limit the areas to cooperation in which Brazil from experience has additional value (technical cooperation) and to always seek triangulation with financial cooperation from OECD countries.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The principle of common but differentiated responsibilities is illegitimate from an ethical point of view. However, the 22 years of negotiations under the UNFCCC made it clear that consensus in the climate area is utopian and conditioning Brazil's action to that of other countries contributes to making the process more time consuming. I believe that the country, due to its size, for being a great emitter and for having shown leadership capacity in the environmental area, should have a purposeful, active and independent agenda of commitments from other countries of the Convention. Climate change is a real risk and urgent action cannot be held hostage to the international political game. Furthermore, an active and independent posture from Brazil can serve to weaken the reticent posture regarding the need to act in other countries.  
 
International political issues need to turn their eyes to the global climate dynamic. If no changes are made to the productive modes of all countries, the whole world will perish, as climate change is not restricted to one place or another, but to the globe.
Brazil's contributions may be directed towards (i) a common metric that allows an effective comparison of emission reductions between all countries ( ii ) patents and technology transfer as a baseline for international cooperation on mitigation and adaptation ( iii ) advances evaluating and implementing REDD and REDD + as an alternative to keep forests standing, make money from it and sequester carbon.
 
We are talking about the climate, part of a natural and dynamic system. The complexity of understanding it consists precisely in evaluating it in different scales and contexts - it is not possible to establish guidelines without prior knowledge of the geographic dynamics of places - each place is unique, singular and particular. Before mitigating, adapting ... it is necessary to KNOW ... we will provide opportunities for studies, local research and then systematically and methodically consolidate data that may make sense in the inversion of the going from local to global. Education and knowledge should be the front of the Brazilian commitments about what will be said about climate change.

I will be honored to help I am a geographer and climatologist, I am sure that with creativity, education and incentive to the production of knowledge - we can save time, money and finally understand what climate change means.
 
 
 
 
The general criterion should be to do your part to prevent global warming as this is a common problem for humanity. Brazil cannot use the inactivity of other countries to avoid doing its part. This is not an attitude of international leadership on the subject.
In view of Brazil's role in the international economy and the degree of development achieved in recent decades, the country finds itself in a paradoxical situation, where on the one hand it is "rich" among the poor, but "poor" among the rich. In this context, the country should seek a position that goes beyond its historical position with the G77 and seek, together with the other BRICS, a set of principles that take into account the country's economic and social situation in the present and in the future.
 
 
 
 
I believe that the criterion to be observed should be the rationalization of the resources allocated to the plan and prioritize awareness about the problem through greater investments in education.
 
What must be observed extremely , first of all, if each investment and subsidy employed to climate change will be really necessary for supposed prevention at the global level.
 
the Brazil should position itself in search of truly effective measures based on the principles of development sustainable, protection of the environment and human development. 
 
 
The reality fatica and 'the atmosphere of the limit, something already ' quantified by the IPCC AR5 and agreed by countries in Durban. To respect the 2oC and 'I need everyone to mitigate, without free riders . The mitigation must be strong and immediate, considering the risks of the wrong decisions taken before 2020. In the case of Brazil, this refers to a road economy , oil and based on basic commodities for export. Climate goals and sustainable development goals must converge immediately, without merely postponing diplomatic rhetoric .
 
 
 
Brazil should review the growth of the civil construction sector since the dizzying increase that has been occurring in the number of homes, especially in buildings, does not generally consider the future impact of using inefficient thermal comfort systems such as preparation for air conditioning in all rooms instead of adequate windows or using electric showers to the detriment of solar water heating.

The sector has impacts on emissions for the next decades and is not carrying out concrete mitigation actions, nor does it appear to be creating conditions for adapting to climate change.
Individual commitment to improve the implementation of actions (legislative and administrative) related to public policies for environmental and climate protection. Government incentives for the adhesion of the private initiative (individual and business). PRINCIPALLY, ENVIRONMENTAL EDUCATION actions (with the effective implementation of the National Environmental Education Policy AT ALL LEVELS) in addition to a concentrated effort to publicize the impacts of climate change on people's lives.
Brazil must support measures to strengthen the international regime in addition to targets and contributions from individual countries, which can support and accelerate the reduction of global emissions. Some of these measures would be:

• Sectoral agreements for, for example, steel, cement, etc .;

• Agreements for minimum efficiency standards for appliances, cars, equipment, etc ;

• Renewable energy increase targets;

• Elimination of fossil fuel subsidies;

• Mechanisms or instruments to transfer large-scale investments from dirty to renewable, clean and low-carbon technologies;

• Measures to control emissions from maritime transport and international aviation.

Such elements would need to be negotiated, and do not depend on Brazil's decision, but Brazil may signal an interest in starting negotiations for these purposes.

Some national initiatives could lead Brazil to the path of a low carbon future:

• Establish a goal of reducing net deforestation to zero, implementing decisions, policies and initiatives that lead to a future that pursues this objective;

• Implement initiatives in the transport and urban mobility sector that seek significant reductions in the sector, with international maritime transport taxation initiatives discussed at the international level;

• Review of sectoral plans including ambitious scenarios for reducing national emissions based on the calculation of the national reduction necessary to ensure climate security;

• Investments that consider basic premises for the promotion of low carbon technologies and that foster an increase in the population's resilience;

• Goals to increase the share of alternative renewable energy in the Brazilian matrix;

• Reduction and elimination of policies and incentives that are contrary to the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions, such as subsidies to fossil fuels;

• Investment in low carbon technological alternatives and international cooperation in their implementation.

• Increase social participation and transparency in decision-making processes on decision making at the international and national level of Climate and Energy

Final comment:

As an organization led and composed only of young people, Engajamundo believes that this questionnaire was prepared in a very technical way , requiring in-depth knowledge on the topic, which prevents the participation and collaboration of the Brazilian population as a whole in this public consultation. We encourage Itamaraty to organize consultations in a more accessible language so that youth and other minority groups can be properly and legitimately represented in the responses.
We must contribute to this materializing, investing different political and economic means in this process.
The current policy of the federal government aims at development through major infrastructure works and expansion of hydroelectric power generation . This mistaken paradigm is increasing deforestation and causing great socio-environmental damage to the generations now and to come. Brazil needs to invest in solar and wind energy, for these are the energy matrix in the future and end up fully with deforestation, no matter for what reason is, already that this is the largest contribution from Brazil to greenhouse gases.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The principle of historical responsibility and common but differentiated responsibilities.

Considering the political and scientific narrative of the thesis of global warming and climate change due to anthropogenic factors caused by CO2 emissions in the atmosphere, it is unacceptable now, when a global regime materializes, that this basic principle is not maintained, or will be distorted .

Despite the growth and emissions prospects of the BRICS bloc countries, among other emerging economies, it is essential to maintain the perspective of historical accountability for the phenomenon, and in this proportion, the demand for payment of ecological debt caused by the developed world.

Likewise, explicit and implicit attempts to transfer the burden of mitigating emissions from the North to the countries of the South and creating new conditions for receiving resources and means of implementation are unacceptable . 
.
 
Countries must contribute based on an equation that calculates the impacts generated by their actions or omissions in the global climate and, also, the benefit generated by the preservation of their environmental resources in their territory.
 
 
.
 
 
 
 

