FEDERATIVE REPUBLIC OF BRAZIL INTENDED NATIONALLY DETERMINED CONTRIBUTION TOWARDS ACHIEVING THE OBJECTIVE OF THE UNITED NATIONS FRAMEWORK CONVENTION ON CLIMATE CHANGE

Pursuant to decisions 1/CP.19 and 1/CP.20, the Government of the Federative Republic of Brazil is pleased to communicate to the Secretariat of the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate    Change    (UNFCCC) its    intended    Nationally    Determined Contribution  (iNDC)  in  the  context  of the  negotiations  of a  protocol,  another  legal instrumentor an agreed outcome with legal force under the Convention applicable to all Parties.

This intended contribution is communicated under the assumption of the adoption of a universal, legally binding instrument that fully respects the principles and provisions of the  UNFCCC,  in  particular  the  principle  of  common  but  differentiated  responsibilities and  respective  capabilities.  It  is  "intended" in  the  sense  that  it  might  be  adjusted,  as appropriate, before  the  ratification,  acceptance  or  approval  of  the Paris agreement in light of provisions yet to be agreed under the ADP mandate.

All policies, measures and actions to implement Brazil’s iNDC are carried out under the National Policy  on Climate  Change (Law  12,187/2009),  the  Law  on  the  Protection  of Native Forests (Law 12,651/2012, here in after referred as Forest Code ), the Law on the National System of Conservation Units (Law    9,985/2000), related legislation , instruments   and   planning   processes.   The Government  of Brazil is committed to implementing its   iNDC   with   full respect   to   human   rights , in   particular rights of vulnerable communities, indigenous populations, traditional communities and workers in  sectors  affected  by  relevant  policies  and  plans , while  promoting gender responsive measures.

Brazil’s  iNDC  has  a  broad scope   including   mitigation,   adaptation   and   means of implementation,  consistent  with  the contributions’ purpose  to  achieve  the  ultimate objective  of  the  Convention,  pursuant  to  decision  1/CP.20,  paragraph  9 ( Lima Call  for Climate Action).

MITIGATION:

Contribution:  Brazil  intends  to  commit  to  reduce greenhouse  gas emissions by 37% below 2005 levels in 2025.

Subsequent indicative contribution : reduce greenhouse  gas emissions  by 43%  below 2005 levels in 2030 . Type : absolute target in relation to a base year.

Coverage : 100%    of the territory, economy wide,    including    CO2,    CH4,    N2O, perfluorocarbons, hydrofluorocarbons and SF6.

Reference point 2005.

Timeframe :   single year   target for 2025;   indicative   values   for   2030   for   reference purposes only

Metric : 100 year Global Warming Potential (GWP-100), using IPCC AR5 values.

Methodological  approaches,  including  those  for  estimating  and  accounting  for anthropogenic  greenhouse  gas  emissions  and,  as  appropriate,  removals : inventory based approach for estimating and accounting anthropogenic greenhouse gas emissions and, as appropriate, removals in accordance with the applicable IPCC guidelines.

This  iNDC  takes  into  account  the  role  of  conservation  units  and  indigenous  lands as forest   managed   areas,   in   accordance   with   the   applicable IPCC   guidelines   on   the estimation of emission removals.

Useof markets: Brazil reserves its position in relation to the possible use of any market mechanisms that may be established under the Paris agreement.

Brazil   emphasizes   that   any transfer   of   units resulting   from   mitigation   outcomes achieved  in  the  Brazilian  territory will  be  subject  to prior and  formal consent  by  the Federal Government.

Brazil willnot recognize the use by other Parties of any units resulting from mitigation outcomes  achieved  in the  Brazilian territory  that  have  been  acquired  through  any mechanism,  instrument or arrangement established  outside the  Convention,  its  Kyoto Protocol or its Paris agreement.

ADAPTATION UNDERTAKINGS 

Brazil  considers  adaptation  to  be  a  fundamental  element of  the  global  effort  to  tackle climate change and its effects. The implementation of policies and measures to adapt to climate    change    contributesto    building    resilience    of    populations,    ecosystems, infrastructure  and  production  systems,  by  reducing  vulnerability and  through the provision of ecosystem services.

The  social  dimension  is  at  the  core  of  Brazil's  adaptation  strategy,  bearing  in  mind  the need to protect vulnerable populations from the negative effects of climate change and enhance resilience. In  this  context, Brazil  is  working  on  the  design  of  new  public policies,  through  its  National  Adaptation  Plan (NAP), in  its  final  elaboration  phase.  The strong involvement of stakeholders, at all  levels, will contribute to the formulation and implementation of Brazil's NAP.

The NAPaims to implement knowledge management systems, to promote research and technology  development  for  adaptation,  to  develop  processes  and  tools  in  support of adaptation actions   and   strategies,   at different   levels   of   government. Brazil   is   a developing country  that experienced  a  fast  urbanization  process.  In  this  context,  risk areas,housing,  basic  infrastructure,  especially  in  the  areas of health , sanitation  and transportation , constitute  key  areas  for  adaptation  policies.  The  Government  of  Brazil gives particular  attention  to  the poorest  populations,  in  terms  of  improving  their housing  and  living  conditions,  bolstering  their  capacity  to  withstand  the  effects  of severe   climate   events. Brazil   already   monitors extreme   rainfall   events   for   888 municipalities and has in place an early warning system and action plans to respond to natural disasters.

It  should  be  further  noted  that  Brazil  seeks  to  enhance  its  national  capacity  in  water security   (National   Water   Security   Plan)   and   conservation and   sustainable   use   of biodiversity ( National Strategic Plan for Protected Areas, as well as the implementation of the Forest Code, particularly concerning protected areas ).The National Adaptation Plan will provide a basis for Brazil to strengthen the country's adaptation  capacity,  assess  climate  risks and  managev ulnerabilities at  the  national, state   and   municipal   levels.   Through   the   NAP,   Brazil's   vision   forits   adaptation undertakings is   to   integrate,   where   appropriate,   vulnerabilities   and   climate   risk management  into public  policies  and  strategies,  as  well  as  to  enhance the coherence  of national and local development strategies with adaptation measures

MEANS OF IMPLEMENTATION

Clarification    on    the    extent    to    which    the    contribution    is    dependent    upon international support

This iNDCis   presented   in   accordance   with   the   principles   and   provisions   of   the Convention,  particularly  Article  4,  paragraphs  1  and  7,  and  Article  12,  paragraphs 1(b) and 4. 

Accordingly,  the  policies,  measures  and  actions  to  achieve this  contribution  will  be implemented without prejudice to the use of the financial mechanism of the Convention or  of any other  modalities  of  international cooperation  and support , with  a  view  to enhance effectiveness and/or anticipate implementation . The   implementation   of Brazil’s iNDC is not contingent upon international  support,  yet it welcomes support from developed countries with a view to generate global benefits.

Additional actions would  demand  large scale increase  of international  support  and investment   flows,   as   well   as technology development,   deployment,   diffusion   and transfer.

Specifically concerning the forest sector,  the  implementation  of REDD+  activities and the  permanence of  results achieved require the  provision,  on  a  continuous  basis , of adequate  and  predictable  results based payments in  accordance  with  the  relevant  COP decisions.

South-South initiatives

Recognizing   the   complementary   role   of   South-South   cooperation,   on   the   basis   of solidarity  and  common  sustainable  development  priorities, Brazil will undertake best efforts  to  enhance cooperation  initiatives with  other  developing  countries,  particularly in  the areas  of forest  monitoring  systems biofuels  capacity-building  and  technology transfer ; low  carbon  and  resilient  agriculture ; restoration  and reforestation activities ; management  of protected  areas ; increased  resilience  through  social  inclusion  and protection   programmes ; capacity building for national communications and other obligations under the Convention , in particular to Portuguese speaking countries . Brazil  invites  developed  country  Parties  and  relevant  international  organizations  to further support such initiatives.

Recalling that the submission of forest reference emission levels and their corresponding REDD+ results are in the context of results based payments, in accordance with decisions 13/CP.19 and 14/CP.19. See also documents FCCC/TAR/2014/BRA and FCCC/SBI/ICA/2015/TATR.1/BRA.
