Emission reduction and limitations, seeking and supporting national resources.
Brazil should not participate in any carbon emission mitigation agreement. There is no evidence that this will have a significant impact on the climate. Even if such an impact could be proven, no serious cost-benefit analysis of adopting such measures was made. It is worth remembering that we live in a middle-income country, where a good part of the population is still poor and that, therefore, compromising the growth of the economy with environmental policies means putting the future of these people at stake in the name of a cause that is, at best of the hypotheses, uncertain.
 
A scenario of warming higher than 2 degrees carries the risk of triggering biogeochemical processes to feed back GHG emissions, creating a vicious circle of heating / emissions . this panorama would greatly reduce civilization's "room for maneuver" to contain the process and also adapt. In this way it is understood that all the best efforts must be employed in the next 50 years, by all nations , in order to stop the heating to the ceiling alreadyawake. It is the understanding of most experts, that any savings (or revenue forfeiture ) made in this regard will, in the long run, be more advantageous from an economic , political , social, cultural and environmental point of view, than any political approach - short-term econometrics , based on common practice. this applies both to the energy and transformation segments, as well as to land use.
You cannot sacrifice the economy for this, even if it is very beneficial, you can replace the current emitters with future "cleaners", technology is lacking!
 
 
 
 
Regarding the duration of a possible new agreement, I believe that a short period of 5 to 10 years should be established for reviewing and adjusting the targets, but already foreseeing the mandatory continuity of these mitigation actions.
 
We are a developing country , we need to improve HDIs, we must target the population without losing sight of the commitment to future generations.
 
 
shares of lightening are a new form of activity economically , contributing in general to increase GDP.
 
 
 
It is a mistake for Brazil to concentrate its actions only on reducing the conversion of forest to agriculture, and on low carbon agriculture. In a diversified economy that the country has, we have to be more aggressive in terms of public and private policies so that the production chains are more efficient in environmental terms, but also more intelligent and profitable in economic terms. In the current climate change plan, Brazil remains very conservative, with actions still in the "field of ideas ".
 
Question 1: We understand that Brazil should continue with commitments at the end of the period, but with a focus on initiatives that are linked to improving the productivity and efficiency of the systems, that is, that, in addition to the gains related to the reduction of emissions per unit produced, bring direct socioeconomic benefits to productive activities. The Brazilian exploration model, comparatively, emits less carbon than that of developed countries.

Question 2: Socioeconomic development must be a prerequisite for successful environmental actions in order to generate complete solutions.

Question 3: For a more critical and broad assessment of the situation, we suggest that mixed approaches be used, mixing options with a focus on the economy as a whole, specific actions for each sector and per capita and GDP relations. In the Brazilian case, the expression “limitation of emissions” does not make sense.

Question 4: The option for “multiple periods” is justified due to a better monitoring of the fulfillment of the goals, adjustment of the work (if necessary) and for enabling the achievement of intermediate results, a fact that contributes to the good management of the process.
 
1) Regarding the first question, we understand that most of the answers are not exclusive, but complementary. In fact, despite the fact that the country has not had mandatory targets so far, it was one of the ones that most reduced emissions in recent years and, even more relevantly, maintains one of the cleanest energy matrices in the world (45% of renewables x 6% of OECD). Therefore, as important or more important than conditioning additional Brazilian efforts to efforts from other countries, is to ensure that they are accompanied by clear economic counterparts, at the international level (preferably) or at the national level, including through market mechanisms. The need for economic counterparts for additional efforts is due not only to the natural logic of increasing marginal abatement costs and to facilitating the overcoming of structural bottlenecks, but also to the need to encourage and value the low carbon practices of the Brazilian productive structure, in relation to international production chains. There are strong connections with the general structure of economic competitiveness. Therefore, it is essential that Brazilian historical and future efforts are recognized, through appropriate international metrics, and that it is valued economically over time.



2) We strongly support Brazilian efforts to update the “Brazilian proposal” originally presented in the Kyoto Protocol negotiations in 1997, so that it serves as a multilateral metric capable of taking into account historical emissions and also adjustments for the consideration of future emissions . As mentioned on previous occasions, we believe that the term “balanced responsibilities” is easier to accept than the term “historical responsibilities”. This is because, the Brazilian proposal, in fact, does not consider only the past, but a logic that applies to the past, the present and the future.



3) Markets: In a scenario in which Brazil has legally binding international commitments, it is very important that there are market mechanisms based on the evolution of the CDM. In this context, we understand that Brazil should not see market mechanisms only as an instrument of flexibility for the fulfillment of commitments by developed countries, but also as an instrument for additional emission reductions by the Brazilian productive sector, including as part of the fulfillment of national commitments (means of implementation, analogous to what Brazil's submission to the Copenhagen Agreement already allows). Instruments such as the CDM are fundamental for the Brazilian economic structure, as a whole, to have its additional efforts recognized through an appropriate economic counterpart (in this case, the value of the credits). Markets should also be seen as an instrument to encourage innovation and additional mitigation practices in Brazil, duly computable as domestic efforts and internationally recognized. In fact, markets should not generate excessive flexibility to fulfill binding commitments in Appendix 1. However, it is important that they always exist, so that the “climate” variable is always considered in investment decision-making, in the production routine and, mainly to encourage additional efforts (voluntary or mandatory). A good way to avoid excessive flexibility is to place some limit on the use of credits. The history of the CDM shows that this market mechanism was substantially more effective than "technology transfer mechanisms", for example. We miss a question on this topic (markets) in this consultation process to contribute to the orientation of the Brazilian position. Specifically, it is also important to prevent specific countries or blocs from creating discriminatory restrictions on the use of multilaterally agreed mechanisms (for example, European restrictions on forest credits under the CDM).
The challenge, in terms of the reduction target, must be associated with a relative indicator, if future projections are not used (without mitigation actions). At the extreme, considering the Brazilian energy matrix, a shift in the production of imported products to the domestic industry would cause an increase in the absolute value of national emissions, but with gains in carbon intensity from the global point of view. This is an important opportunity for the country's development and to position ourselves as a solution in the low carbon economy.
Mitigation actions always generate new economic activities or reinforce existing business activities. The dichotomy between mitigation and economic activity is false. Mitigation actions are already available at negative marginal costs. In other words, actions that, once implemented, would bring economic returns for those responsible for implementing them, in addition to the benefits - economic, environmental and improving the quality of life - for Brazilian society.

Alongside these, there are actions with a very long-term return, but which are necessary for the stabilization of GHG concentrations in the atmosphere at safe levels, to be achieved by the middle of the present century. Achieving the right mix between short-term stocks with quick returns and stocks with longer-term return benefits is a function of good governance in the Brazilian economy. The choice involves seeking the maximum benefit for both Brazilian society and the global climate, which is facilitated for Brazil given the optimal conditions in terms of natural resources and, to a large extent, economic and financial.

Even the opposition between resources for the solution of "historical debts" such as access to quality education and health, as well as the achievement of greater security in our cities, with the allocation of resources to mitigate climate change can only come from one mistaken thinking that separates our daily life from global risks, impossible in a globalized world in which climate change impacts everyone's life.

Planning to mitigate also means investing heavily in education. No people without access to education will be able to meet this challenge. Our health system needs to be improved or built for a world in which climate change will be, to a greater or lesser extent, present in our daily lives.

In practice, mitigating and adapting are not separate parts of what you need to do. Reduce GHG emissions and, at the same time, adapt the health system to increase the vectors of tropical diseases - dengue, dengue cousins, malaria, etc. - in regions until recently immune. It is an example. The same applies to urban planning, sanitation systems, etc.
Brazil has a renewable energy matrix and will continue to have it, even if it increases the use of thermics . Increase the cost of generating electric while the other countries NOT alcancerem the metric Brazilian is aumentnar cost Brazil, and leave Brazil less competitive. Our hydraulic potential will end in the 2025 horizon and for that it will be necessary to use thermics that should be used more efficiently, but to increase the cost to society.
We believe that the issue of common but differentiated responsibilities must prevail in Brazil's negotiations.

Brazil is a country in economic and industrial development, therefore, its growth should not be impacted by the lack of climate change in other industrialized and developed countries.
 
 
 
Actions must be balanced with development, in order to maintain and / or expand the country's competitiveness. Also for these reason they must be conditioned to international participation in equal measure to the national effort. Actions related to renewable energy and the use of biomass can be an alternative.
 
 
 
The Brazilian business sector suffers from taxes far above international standards and conditioning reductions without considering the sustainability tripod is not a viable option. Additionally, the deadlines for each sector / process must be differentiated according to different technological stages and cost / benefit ratio.
Look, I believe that we must stop cutting trees everywhere, knowing that we have several other alternatives already shown all over the world on how we can make paper, for example, there are natural plants that should be allowed to be planted, certainly despite having to facing the pharmaceutical lobby we would jump 20 years in just 5 years. We can be an example of how to stop cutting trees in the world, let's think about it. Let's get society out of the hands of lobbyists against the advancement of our BRAZILIAN society!
 
The credit for the maintenance of tropical forests should go to funds for renewable energy projects.
Any effort to protect the economy and growth will be of no value if the global environment is unfavorable to comfortable living and generates expenses for immediate reconstructions to the most frequent natural tragedies. Earn in the long run!
Considering the emissions from the energy sector represented 32% of the total Brazilian emissions in CO2eq (Ministry of Science, Technology and Innovation, 2013), and that the National Policy on Climate Change uses the Ten-Year Energy Expansion Plan - PDE and its revisions as a basis for achieving further emission reductions based on the use of ethanol and other sources of renewable energy, it is essential that future nationally appropriate contributions that Brazil will make to the UNFCCC adopt ambitious targets for the use of ethanol as a way to contribute to reductions significant emissions.



According to PDE 2022, it is estimated that the demand for hydrous and anhydrous ethanol in 2020 will be 51.5 billion liters. However, it is essential to create policies that encourage and promote the use of ethanol on an ongoing basis, removing, for example, subsidies for the consumption of fossil fuels. It is crucial to remember that the potential for reducing CO2 emissions from Brazilian ethanol compared to gasoline is 90%.



Furthermore, the supply potential of bioelectricity generation with the burning of bagasse and cane straw can reach an average 22.1 Giga Watts in 2022, which depends, however, on concrete policies that include changes in auctions for the electricity sector, allowing healthy competition between different energy sources, fostering competitive prices that recognize the positive externalities of sugarcane bioelectricity and creating conditions that encourage investments in the sector.  



The new contributions that Brazil will make to the UNFCCC need to consider the potential of sugarcane, whether in the form of ethanol or bioelectricity , as concrete mitigation actions that the country will be able to make under the new climate agreement.
In establishing sectoral contributions (Block 1 question 3), studies should be carried out on the possible impacts on the national and international competitiveness of the sectors.
 
 
 
1) Regarding the first question, we understand that most of the answers are not exclusive, but complementary. In fact, despite the fact that the country has not had mandatory targets so far, it was one of the ones that most reduced emissions in recent years and, even more relevantly, maintains one of the cleanest energy matrices in the world (45% of renewables x 6% of OECD). Therefore, as important or more important than conditioning additional Brazilian efforts to efforts from other countries, is to ensure that they are accompanied by clear economic counterparts, at the international level (preferably) or at the national level, including through market mechanisms. The need for economic counterparts for additional efforts is due not only to the natural logic of increasing marginal abatement costs and to facilitating the overcoming of structural bottlenecks, but also to the need to encourage and value the low carbon practices of the Brazilian productive structure, in relation to international production chains. There are strong connections with the general structure of economic competitiveness. Therefore, it is essential that Brazilian historical and future efforts are recognized, by means of an appropriate international metric, and that it is valued economically over time.



2) We strongly support Brazilian efforts to update the “Brazilian proposal” originally presented in the Kyoto Protocol negotiations in 1997, so that it serves as a multilateral metric capable of taking into account historical emissions and also adjustments for the consideration of future emissions . As mentioned on previous occasions, we believe that the term “balanced responsibilities” is easier to accept than the term “historical responsibilities”. This is because, the Brazilian proposal, in fact, does not consider only the past, but a logic that applies to the past, the present and the future.



3) Markets: In a scenario in which Brazil has legally binding international commitments, it is very important that there are market mechanisms based on the evolution of the CDM. In this context, we understand that Brazil should not see market mechanisms only as an instrument of flexibility for the fulfillment of commitments by developed countries, but also as an instrument for additional emissions reductions by the Brazilian productive sector, including as part of the fulfillment of national commitments (means of implementation, analogous to what Brazil's submission to the Copenhagen Agreement already allows). Instruments such as the CDM are fundamental for the Brazilian economic structure, as a whole, to have its additional efforts recognized through an appropriate economic counterpart (in this case, the value of the credits). Markets should also be seen as an instrument to encourage innovation and additional mitigation practices in Brazil, duly computable as domestic efforts and internationally recognized. In fact, markets should not generate excessive flexibility to fulfill binding commitments in Appendix 1. However, it is important that they always exist, so that the “climate” variable is always considered in investment decision-making, in the production routine and, mainly to encourage additional efforts (voluntary or mandatory). A good way to avoid excessive flexibility is to place some limit on the use of credits. The history of the CDM shows that this market mechanism was substantially more effective than "technology transfer mechanisms", for example. We miss a question in this consultation process for the Brazilian contribution on this topic (markets) to guide the Brazilian position. Specifically, it is also important to prevent specific countries or blocs from creating discriminatory restrictions on the use of multilaterally agreed mechanisms (for example, European restrictions on forest credits under the CDM).
1) Regarding the first question, we understand that most of the answers are not exclusive, but complementary. In fact, despite the fact that the country has not had mandatory targets so far, it was one of the ones that most reduced emissions in recent years and, even more relevantly, maintains one of the cleanest energy matrices in the world (45% of renewables x 6% of OECD). Therefore, as important or more important than conditioning additional Brazilian efforts to efforts from other countries, is to ensure that they are accompanied by clear economic counterparts, at the international level (preferably) or at the national level, including through market mechanisms. The need for economic counterparts for additional efforts is due not only to the natural logic of increasing marginal abatement costs and to facilitating the overcoming of structural bottlenecks, but also to the need to encourage and value the low carbon practices of the Brazilian productive structure, in relation to international production chains. There are strong connections with the general structure of economic competitiveness. Therefore, it is essential that Brazilian historical and future efforts are recognized, by means of an appropriate international metric, and that it is valued economically over time.



2) We strongly support Brazilian efforts to update the “Brazilian proposal” originally presented in the Kyoto Protocol negotiations in 1997, so that it serves as a multilateral metric capable of taking into account historical emissions and also adjustments to consider future emissions . As mentioned on previous occasions, we believe that the term “balanced responsibilities” is easier to accept than the term “historical responsibilities”. This is because, the Brazilian proposal, in fact, does not consider only the past, but a logic that applies to the past, the present and the future.



3) Markets: In a scenario in which Brazil has legally binding international commitments, it is very important that there are market mechanisms based on the evolution of the CDM. In this context, we understand that Brazil should not see market mechanisms only as an instrument of flexibility for the fulfillment of commitments from developed countries, but also as an instrument for additional emissions reductions by the Brazilian productive sector, including as part of the fulfillment of national commitments (means of implementation, analogous to what Brazil's submission to the Copenhagen Agreement already allows). Instruments such as the CDM are fundamental for the Brazilian economic structure, as a whole, to have its additional efforts recognized through adequate economic compensation (in this case, the value of the credits). Markets should also be seen as an instrument to encourage innovation and additional mitigation practices in Brazil, duly computable as domestic efforts and internationally recognized. In fact, markets should not generate excessive flexibility to fulfill binding commitments in Appendix 1. However, it is important that they always exist, so that the “climate” variable is always considered in investment decision-making, in the production routine and, mainly to encourage additional efforts (voluntary or mandatory). A good way to avoid excessive flexibility is to place some limit on the use of credits. The history of the CDM shows that this market mechanism was substantially more effective than "technology transfer mechanisms", for example. We miss a question on this topic (markets) to guide the Brazilian position. Specifically, it is also important to prevent specific countries or blocs from creating discriminatory restrictions on the use of multilaterally agreed mechanisms (for example, European restrictions on forest credits under the CDM).
During the past few years and in the context of the NAMAs defined by Brazil until 2020, the country has made great strides in controlling deforestation and expanding electricity generation based on renewable energies. In this way, Brazil has shown itself to be able to reduce emissions ambitiously.

For the country to expand its contribution to global mitigation, it is important that:



i) the future global climate regime allows the country to make use of the low carbon intensity of its economy as a competitive advantage;

ii ) the economic signs for mitigation are transversal to all sectors of the economy to promote mitigation in an economically efficient way; and

iii ) there is an evolution of public policies based on the principles of transparency; sustainability and prosperity, with permanent consultation with all interested parties.



Regarding the definition of mitigation actions in the Brazilian economy, it is important to highlight that an effective public policy needs to combine several incentive, monitoring and support instruments capable of ensuring the intended results. Bearing in mind that the main objective is mitigation at the lowest possible economic cost, these public policies must include carbon pricing based on flexible mechanisms.

In Brazil, we have as an example the energy policy to encourage alternative and renewable energies, established under Law No. 12,187 / 09 and by Decree No. 7,390 / 10; as is the case with the financial and tax policy that defines the financing conditions of BNDES and other public and private banks; the reduction of taxes and sectoral fees and the complementary use of the CDM as a flexible mechanism.

These guidelines were able to promote the contracting of more than 36GW of renewable energy, with emphasis on large hydroelectric plants, wind farms and bioelectricity .

A relevant strategy was the insertion of Brazilian policy in the international regime through the CDM, which is capable of remunerating projects directly for their environmental benefit and, thus, encouraging those who most benefit the global climate. In fact, the use of the CDM allowed to finance part of the high cost of capital of renewable energy plants and also to quantify the result of the mitigation policies that Brazil has defined for the electricity sector in the context of its NAMAs .

In view of this situation, more than 180 renewable energy projects have already been registered by Brazil in the CDM, with a generation capacity of 16.5 GW that enable the reduction of emissions of more than 24 million tons of CO2 per year. This result, quantified based on the recognized CDM methodologies, represents an important reference for the effectiveness of the NAMAs established by Brazil for its electric sector. However, the current crisis in the carbon market has eliminated the expected financial contribution to most projects, generating losses for companies that promote mitigation projects.

In this context, it is important that the Brazilian position ensures the recognition of these contributions and results as “ early action ” for Brazil and its entrepreneurs. It is essential that the future climate regime ensures the validity of these results and policies as the basis for their definition and evolution. In addition, it is important to ensure the reestablishment of the international carbon market. In the case of an international regime with comparable carbon prices, which allows Brazilian enterprises to access the international market, it will enable Brazil to have the capacity to finance the mitigation of greenhouse gases without detriment to economic and social development. Given the perspective of continuous evolution of the international regime, it is recommended that multiple periods be adopted to allow a long-term view and, at the same time, allow flexible responses in the face of the evolution of the national and international situation.


We believe that the issue of common

but differentiated responsibilities must prevail in

Brazil's negotiations . Brazil is a country in economic and

industrial development, therefore, its growth should not be impacted

by the lack of climate change in other industrialized and developed countries

.
 
The policy has to be consistent, long-term, ambitious and national. Brazilian action should not be conditioned on actions by other countries.
 
 
Emission reductions in the land-change and forestry sector occur as the current legislation has been more satisfactorily complied with.

I do not know a plan for all sectors so that Brazil can meet its goals.
 
 
 
In industrial sectors.
Again, Brazil should withdraw from the Climate Convention and refuse to sign any comparison agreement on the topic. The very existence of an "Interministerial Committee on Climate Change" represents a waste of valuable resources for Brazilian citizens. There are no successful examples of "Adaptation", as all such policies have very high costs and questionable results at best.
programs of adaptation multisectoral mainly intended for the semi-arid northeast, as well as areas urban and rural, prone to flooding and deslisamentos .
The industrial area, for sure and big fires.
The main areas of concern, in my view, are:

- Agriculture (in food production)

- Biodiversity (in terms of maintenance)

- Water supply
The main areas of concern, in my view, are:

- Agriculture (in food production) - Biodiversity (in terms of maintenance) - Water supply
reduction of CO2 emissions in industries; reduction of natural gas used in companies.
- Water management, adaptation to new drought patterns and rain regimes

- Energy security (grid diversity and investment in renewable energy sources)

- Climate refugees
Water Pollution and its scarcity, the sending of ore abroad without the development of long-term environmental policies. The vulnerability of the Brazilian environment due to the lack of its own space technology.
civil construction . The sector of the construction eh causing major environmental impacts worldwide, including emissions of greenhouse gases. Brazil uses little, if any, wood in civil construction in general. adapt construction civil to a low carbon economy eh fundamental. the PNHR just had order of the ministry of cities allowing finance ciamento public of residential wood for Amazonia Brasileira, this practice should be expanded. almost all the civilized world already has launched project activities focused on wood consumption increased construction calendar in order to adapt to changes climatic and generate credits carbon ( wood is good - FAO initiative)


Need to invest in renewable energy sources and encourage the use of them
In general, Brazil's international relationship policy is "no" coping. Examples that are easy to remember are the various opportunities in which the country was called upon to take a stand before world opinion, and Itamaraty almost always chose not to confirm its point of view. What the country lacks, as a desire to position itself as an active entity in world politics, is to clearly present its National Plan: goals, deadlines, actions. With the plan ready, just implement. For that, the Plan must be the "engine" of the country's economy ... so that the whole society wins, in the medium term. Costs will always exist , but the country must understand that, acting locally, environmental sustainability is positively reversed in the long run in national terms. The economy is already showing signs that it is possible to distribute income while conserving the environment.
One of the fundamental points is the knowledge of the real impact that the activities cause in terms of the net balance of GHG emissions . This involves obtaining references and scientific information on the emission, sequestration and mitigation of GHG's .



This fact is complex, due to the existence of different productive realities, especially in the agricultural activity, with variations in the climate, vegetation, production systems, degree of intensification, etc. 
The construction of a national Adaptation plan in which the concerns and concerns of all sectors are considered seems to us the best alternative. It is important to note that specific and additional resources for adapting to climate change must be considered in any type of Brazilian contribution. In this sense, investments in infrastructure necessary to adapt to the impacts resulting from climate change in Brazil are essential, including within the land use and forestry sector. The Brazilian tree industry has invested heavily in breeding technology and selection of species that are more resistant to different climatic conditions, but the challenges are great and support, recognition and better integration with national adaptation policies are needed.
1) With regard to adaptation, the main areas of concern are impacts on infrastructure , energy and availability of raw materials. Brazil can present examples of good practices, with the use of renewable energy and renewable raw materials.

2) It is necessary to rethink the current Brazilian energy matrix, favoring the return of hydroelectric plants with reservoirs instead of run-of-river hydroelectric plants being emphasized today. Also rethink the policy for biofuels as current prices discourage ethanol and biodiesel industry chains.
The current separation between mitigation and adaptation is mistaken. Over time, the actions will prove to be complementary. For example, the urban design of our cities needs to be modified in order to adapt them to a different climate - droughts, floods, storms etc. - will be modified. As a result, transport systems, energy distribution, water, piped gas and other urban services - transport for example - are also changing. There is nothing more obvious than moving towards a low carbon economy. The same applies to agriculture and livestock.

The inputs industry - steel, cement and chemicals - are the most difficult to solve and will require greater public and private investments. In these segments, the focus must be global and the sectoral focus should be encouraged within the scope of the convention.

An adequate strategy for adapting to climate change for Brazil, as well as for any other nation, requires the identification and assessment of vulnerabilities and opportunities for adaptation and increased resilience, both in regional and local terms and within the scope of different sectors of the economy. In a country that is territorially extensive and with immense social, cultural and species diversity like ours, it is critical to consider the insertion of adaptation strategies based on ecosystems and communities in a national strategy on adaptation, in order to empower communities and local populations to to deal with and reduce their vulnerabilities, and for the good management of well-preserved natural ecosystems to contribute to increased resilience in the face of climate change. It is important that the Brazilian Government register with the UNFCCC its National Plan for Adaptation to Climate Change (currently under development). Although this Plan is not the subject of this consultation, it must also be constructed, taking into account the UNFCCC recommendations and guidelines, such as those made by UNFCCC in its Decision 5 / CP.17, which demands that the National Adaptation Plans must include objectives to reduce the country's vulnerability to the impacts of climate change by building capacity for adaptation and resilience, enabling the integration of the logic of adaptation to climate change, in a coherent way, into policies, programs and actions, new and existing, and determined development processes and strategies, in all relevant sectors and at different levels (national, regional, local, etc.), as needed. And it recommends that the National Plan include targets, indicators for monitoring and evaluation and means of implementation.
the problem of rain in the reservoirs causing loss of physical guarantee .
The Adaptation Plan must go through the phases of monitoring local and national impacts, main vulnerabilities and mitigations and adaptation.
The main impacts are related to excess or shortage of resources water . Mitigation actions must take into account the sectors most affected, such as agriculture, protection of cities and slopes, maintenance of large reservoirs for hydroelectric generation.
View previous comments
Well I will use an example:

Cotton: one needs tons of pesticides to produce, we have to go back to the year 1920 when could still do things trough of hemp . Clothes would become much cheaper and more resistant, we would have total conditions to almost extinguish the felling of trees for paper production. Her fiber would replace several materials that we use today, cutting down and killing nature. Let's stop being slaves to the owners of the Pharmaceuticals ,
Changeover system polyhydric to losses in food production and power generation hydroelectric
Current palliative contributions as we see in the recent green architecture for new real estate developments and studies on the impact of rising sea levels to adapt coastal cities to this possible scenario.
The construction of a national Adaptation plan in which the concerns and concerns of all sectors are considered seems to us the best alternative. It is important to note that specific and additional resources for adapting to climate change must be considered in any type of Brazilian contribution. In this sense, investments in infrastructure necessary to adapt to the impacts resulting from climate change in Brazil are essential, including within the land use and forestry sector. The Brazilian tree industry has invested heavily in breeding technology and selection of species that are more resistant to different climatic conditions, but the challenges are great and support, recognition and better integration with national adaptation policies are needed.
The construction of a national Adaptation plan in which the concerns and concerns of all sectors are considered seems to us the best alternative. It is important to highlight specific and additional resources for adapting to climate change, which should be considered in any type of Brazilian contribution. In this sense, investments in infrastructure necessary to adapt to the impacts resulting from climate change in Brazil are essential, including within the land use and forestry sector. The Brazilian tree industry has invested heavily in breeding technology and selection of species that are more resistant to different climatic conditions, but the challenges are great and support, recognition and better integration with national adaptation policies are needed.
The main care in relation to measures to adapt to climate change is to achieve synergy between mitigation and the need for social and environmental development. All of these measures should be able to increase the country's resilience in the face of expected climate impacts. Unfortunately, the nature, size and frequency of the expected impacts at the local and regional level are still not well understood. Therefore, we recommend two lines of action:



1) Continuous monitoring of the impacts observed and projected at the national and regional level:

In order to prevent society's agents from making decisions to allocate inefficient resources from the point of view of climate resilience, it is important that there is preparation and dissemination of information on expected impacts at national and regional level, in a clear and understandable manner. We understand that it is the responsibility of the State, possibly in cooperation with the international community, to provide this information in a timely, understandable manner and with updates that reflect the rapid advance of knowledge in this area.



2) Integration of the adaptation aspect to the objectives of mitigation and economic expansion:

Considering the uncertainty of the nature and frequency of occurrence of climatic impacts, at the national and regional level, it is important that adaptation is an objective integrated into all government and initiative decisions toilet. For the Brazilian electricity sector, this implies that national regulation should promote the expansion of the generation park in a diversified way in terms of technology and geography, integrated with a transmission and distribution infrastructure capable of allowing the exchange of energy without bottlenecks and with resilience to different climatic impacts. Adaptation to climate change requires that each enterprise be optimized with the objective of increasing the security of the system and, also, adapting to its surroundings. Hydroelectric plants with the capacity to store water in reservoirs for generation or consumption make it possible to manage floods and dry periods and are an important instrument for increasing local and national climate resilience. Likewise, new renewable energies, wind, bioelectricity , solar, SHP, basic and cutting-edge thermoelectric power stations are important to provide the necessary security and resilience to the national interconnected system (SIN).
The Adaptation Plan must go through the phases of

monitoring local and national impacts, main

vulnerabilities and mitigations and adaptation.
I am unaware of serious, consistent and long-term initiatives related to adaptation in Brazil. The approach must be mixed with the combination of all the above alternatives, since existing initiatives in Brazil are still embryonic or simply image actions.
A) GREATER PARTICIPATION OF ETHANOL IN THE SUPPLY OF VEHICLES IN THE NATIONAL ENERGY MATRIX;



B) SETTING DEFINED TARGETS FOR ENLARGEMENT AND ENERGY EFFICIENCY FOR THE USE OF ETHANOL AND BIOCHEROSENE IN COMMERCIAL AVIATION;



C) ADDITION OF 5% ETHANOL IN THE COMPOSITION OF DIESEL REDUCING THE QUANTITY OF HARMFUL GASES AND EMISSION OF PARTICULATE;



D) ENCOURAGE THE CONVERSION OF CO2 ORIGINATED IN INDUSTRIAL PROCESSES AS THE PRODUCTION OF CEMENT AND USE IN THE CROP OF MICRO ALGAE FOR ANIMAL FEED;



E) IMPLEMENTATION OF THE CARBON MARKET;



F) DIFFUSION OF TECHNOLOGIES AND USES OF CO2 OF COLLECTIVE INTEREST IN APPLICATIONS LIKE WATER TREATMENT, EFFLUENTS, ETC.



G) INCORPORATION OF CO2 INTO SOIL THROUGH IRRIGATION SYSTEMS OBTAINING INCREASED PRODUCTIVITY;
 
 
The Brazilian Government has no right to expropriate resources from its citizens to apply in policies to combat climate change, nor does it have the right to demand that citizens of other countries pay for these policies, and much worse, it has no right to expropriate its citizens to pay for such policies in other countries. Anyone who believes that they should pay for climate change actions must do so through voluntary contribution from their own resources, imposing this on others is an unjustified violation of property rights.
 
 
Everything is well elaborated and limits are established, mainly financial, it is organized and you can know where you got it right or where you need to get it right!
 
Question 8: Brazil has reached a sufficient level of development to implement a large part of its national contribution with its own resources, but it must not give up international financing to effectively implement all of its national contribution to the new agreement under the Convention.
Question 8: Some actions to combat climate change in developing countries should be carried out with their own resources as far as possible, but additional efforts of financial resources and technology transfer from developed countries should take place, so as not to compromise the priority to economic and social development and the eradication of poverty.

Question 9: Brazil has reached a sufficient level of development to implement its national contribution with its own resources, but it should not give up international financing for this purpose.
 
 
 
Brazil intends to be a great producer of food and a reserve of drinking water for the future generations of this planet.
 
 
the mechanisms of transfer of credits environmental to other countries should be better regulated. the environmental quality eh foundation for Brazil's competitiveness in the green economy, and sell environmental quality means undermine the competitiveness of the country, especially with respect to attraction of clean investments. the lightening eh a way to increase the gdp with comparative advantages to countries with environmental quality. 9) GDP increases with shares of lightening , which are of national interest, so funding should be internal. not , however, the sources of funds may be international, bilateral, multilateral, etc. the important eh see lightening and adaptation as a competitive advantage. when a manufacturer has an innovative and quality product, he does not demand that others have the same innovation and quality, he uses it to win markets, the others that seek to do the same on their side ... 10) if there are countries that open hand of their environmental quality in exchange for financial support, Brazil must take ownership of this environmental quality in the form of credits , benefiting the competitiveness of the sectors economic national. the rule of fairness must be observed in international debates, and this agenda should be clearly stated to the participants.




 
 
 
In world agreements, developing countries are charged by developed countries for leaving the passive attitude and becoming proactive. As long as Brazil adopts the posture of a country "dependent" on foreign financial aid, we will continue to be seen as a developing country. As a nation strategy, we need to define our role as an "active" or "passive" agenda on the international stage. It is evident that in the long run, Brazil has to gain by showing other countries that it is capable of taking the reins of the production process with sustainability. For this reason, it should not be dependent on international resources "at a loss" to implement its climate change policy. Staying in the position of "recipient" of resources takes away the possibility of demanding from developed nations their commitment and results in reducing their own emissions.
 
Question 8, 9 and 10: Developed countries should collaborate financially in the process, as a way of offsetting previous emissions by this group of countries, as well as to collaborate with developing countries, which still lack investments in basic sectors such as health, education and infrastructure.
 
In addition to the means of implementation mentioned above, it is important to remember that markets, properly regulated, are also a means of implementation of great importance. In a scenario where Brazil has legally binding international commitments, it is very important that there are market mechanisms based on the evolution of the CDM. In this context, we understand that Brazil should not see market mechanisms only as an instrument of flexibility for the fulfillment of commitments by developed countries, but also as an instrument for additional emissions reductions by the Brazilian productive sector, including as part of the fulfillment of national commitments (means of implementation, analogous to what Brazil's submission to the Copenhagen Agreement already allows). Instruments such as the CDM are fundamental for the Brazilian economic structure, as a whole, to have its additional efforts recognized through an appropriate economic counterpart (in this case, the value of the credits). Markets should also be seen as an instrument to encourage innovation and additional mitigation practices in Brazil, duly computable as domestic efforts and internationally recognized. In fact, markets should not generate excessive flexibility to fulfill binding commitments in Appendix 1. However, it is important that they always exist, so that the “climate” variable is always considered in investment decision-making, in the production routine and, mainly to encourage additional efforts (voluntary or mandatory). A good way to avoid excessive flexibility is to place some limit on the use of credits. The history of the CDM shows that this market mechanism was substantially more effective than "technology transfer mechanisms", for example. We miss a question on this topic (markets) in this consultation process to contribute to the orientation of the Brazilian position.

 
 
Orientation to the positioning of Brazil in defining its contribution to the New Agreement. Brazil is a large emerging economy that has the capacity to direct its own resources to its policies, measures and actions for mitigation and adaptation to climate change and should have eliminated extreme poverty by 2020. A significant amount of resources is today allocated to policies and actions mitigation and adaptation. We have, for example, a set of Sectorial Mitigation and Adaptation Plans, which have federal budget resources for their execution. And Brazil has the National Climate Change Fund, which finances some important adaptation actions and subsidizes the elaboration of the National Adaptation Plan.



Resource sources. Negotiation within the UNFCCC to define emission reduction targets for all countries, for the post-2020 period, includes a wide debate on equitable distribution of commitments and targets. Therefore, the target to be defined for Brazil should, as well as for the other countries, correspond to its share of responsibility and its capacity for action. Brazil is a large emerging economy that is in a position to make significant commitments to reduce and limit its greenhouse gas emissions, starting in 2020. External resources, arising from a REDD + mechanism within the scope of the UNFCCC, by recognizing performance of the country in reducing emissions from deforestation and forest degradation, may eventually contribute to the country's progress in its efforts in an area that already has important international cooperation resources (see Amazon Fund, which has resources from Norway and Germany ). South-South



cooperation . Brazil already develops cooperation actions with other developing countries, especially with less developed countries, in important areas, such as monitoring of vegetation cover. This cooperation does not depend solely and exclusively on the existence of external resources, so it is recommended that the country cooperate, to the extent of its capacity, in different ways, such as in training and transfer of knowledge and technology. However, if there are resources in the scope of international cooperation, the UNFCCC and the Green Climate Fund, these cooperation actions can be intensified.
 
 
 
 
 
The changes will require funding and technological resources without which any structural changes will be difficult and time consuming . Brazil cannot do without these resources. Brazil could help other nations but at this point should not assume formal commitments, evaluating over the front of these opportunities.
 
 
 
View previous comments
We have to implement something that has not yet been created, as all the methods presented are unable to make a significant change. I believe that by releasing marijuana and using all of its capabilities, we can cut deforestation by more than half. Paper, furniture, fabrics tdo would be done trough the fiber that it provides us, probably we would be at a higher level than the china in less than 15 years. With beautiful forests and trees sprouting, and without having to use pesticides on cotton for example. That if not the biggest is one of the biggest consumers of pesticides in the world.
 
 
If we are able to afford to organize major sporting events and engineering ventures in countries like Cuba and Venezuela, we also have the ability to afford policies that are useful to collective life both in our country and in helping other countries.
 
Brazil should increase its partnerships with developing countries, especially the BASIC countries.
 
 
 
In addition to the means of implementation mentioned above, it is important to remember that markets, properly regulated, are also a means of implementation of great importance. In a scenario in which Brazil has legally binding international commitments, it is very important that there are market mechanisms based on the evolution of the CDM. In this context, we understand that Brazil should not see market mechanisms only as an instrument of flexibility for the fulfillment of commitments of developed countries, but also as an instrument for additional emissions reductions by the Brazilian productive sector, including as part of the fulfillment of national commitments (means of implementation, analogous to what Brazil's submission to the Copenhagen Agreement already allows). Instruments such as the CDM are fundamental for the Brazilian economic structure, as a whole, to have its additional efforts recognized through an appropriate economic counterpart (in this case, the value of the credits). Markets should also be seen as an instrument to encourage innovation and additional mitigation practices in Brazil, duly computable as domestic efforts and internationally recognized. In fact, markets should not generate excessive flexibility to fulfill binding commitments in Appendix 1. However, it is important that they always exist, so that the “climate” variable is always considered in investment decision-making, in the production routine and, mainly to encourage additional efforts ( voluntary or mandatory). A good way to avoid excessive flexibility is to place some limit on the use of credits. The history of the CDM shows that this market mechanism was substantially more effective than "technology transfer mechanisms", for example. We miss a question on this topic (markets) to guide the Brazilian position.
In addition to the means of implementation mentioned above, it is important to remember that markets, properly regulated, are also a means of implementation of great importance. In a scenario in which Brazil has legally binding international commitments, it is very important that there are market mechanisms based on the evolution of the CDM. In this context, we understand that Brazil should not see market mechanisms only as an instrument of flexibility for the fulfillment of commitments from developed countries, but also as an instrument for additional emissions reductions by the Brazilian productive sector, including as part of the fulfillment of national commitments (means of implementation, analogous to what Brazil's submission to the Copenhagen Agreement already allows). Instruments such as the CDM are fundamental for the Brazilian economic structure, as a whole, to have its additional efforts recognized through an appropriate economic counterpart (in this case, the value of the credits). Markets should also be seen as an instrument to encourage innovation and additional mitigation practices in Brazil, duly computable as domestic efforts and internationally recognized. In fact, markets should not generate excessive flexibility to fulfill binding commitments in Appendix 1. However, it is important that they always exist, so that the “climate” variable is always considered in investment decision-making, in the production routine and, mainly to encourage additional efforts (voluntary or mandatory). A good way to avoid excessive flexibility is to place some limit on the use of credits. The history of the CDM shows that this market mechanism was substantially more effective than "technology transfer mechanisms", for example. We miss a question on this topic (markets) to guide the Brazilian position.
Currently, in the context of its NAMAs , Brazil already finances mitigation activities, in part or in whole, with its own resources. This is evident in the electricity sector where the National Policy on Global Climate Change has established a series of economic incentives for the implementation of renewable energy projects.

However, part of the cost is paid for the use of CDM and in this way the projects represent an important example of the “ burden sharing ” that is being discussed at the international level. In part, the national contribution is justified due to the social and environmental benefits that these projects bring to its surroundings. On the other hand, the high capital intensity of investments and the costs of insertion in the Brazilian energy matrix represent a barrier, especially when considering other short-term social demands of exclusive government responsibility. Therefore, the contribution by developed countries is justified. Based on this concept, Brazil's insertion in the international carbon market, to be promoted by the new global climate regime, will make it possible to attract resources for the expansion of mitigation activities and long-term sustainable development, without further compromising life prospects. of the contemporary generation. With regard to south-south cooperation, we understand that it is in the Brazilian interest to expand cooperation with other developing countries to promote adaptation solutions and technological innovation to be made available, and also to attract partnerships with potential benefits for countries . An important opportunity in this regard is the energy integration of Latin America, which can offer gains in terms of economic efficiency, energy security, climate resilience and mitigation of greenhouse gases, like the one being promoted in North America, USA, Canada and Mexico.




Maintain the principle of common but

differentiated responsibilities . Stimulus and subsidies for easier access to

financial resources from FINEP, BNDES, GEF, etc. , for

research, development and implementation of projects related

to energy efficiency and cleaner technologies and

sustainable buildings. It also encourages the reduction of the

birth rate and family planning.
 
 
 
 
Brazil should be the protagonist in combating climate change. We should be proactive and not wait for outside assistance. If we aim to be a leading nation, for example : to take a permanent seat on the UN Security Council, we should be ready to take more responsibility. It is strategic for Brazil to play an important role in combating climate change. We take advantage since we have knowledge and experience in the conservation of the largest tropical forest in the world. Why not be the driving force behind this change? This will bear more fruit than a reactive stance.
 
 
 
 
The only valid contribution that can be made to such an agreement is to denounce the high cost and ineffectiveness of this type of policy. The cost of this type of policy is particularly harmful for low-income populations, since its impact on food and energy prices prevents gains in the quality of life of these populations. For example, imposing that poor countries use renewable sources of energy, which are significantly more expensive, can reduce the access of people in those countries to electricity. For environmental groups, who want a "return to the caves", this scenario is close to a dream, for anyone sensible and concerned with the progress and well-being of individuals, this is a nightmare.
 
revision of criteiros to finaciamento activities economic related to land use and production agriculture , prioritizing productive systems more resilient and better swing of GHGs . maintain the expansion of the wind farm and plan a national policy for the use of solar energy and biomass.
 
 
 
 
 
We must abandon the idea of ​​seeking the relative emissions of each country, since the industrial revolution.

This effort is a huge waste of time. We could be focusing on much more productive studies and discussions, as this is an imminent problem and our share of responsibility grows every day.
 
Sovereignty, internal criteria, inspection and publicity of results. internal and external evaluation committee .
 
The construction of the contributions that Brazil will make must guarantee economic and social development and ensure the country's competitiveness through actions that include, for example:

• Food

security

• Energy security • Water management

• Urban mobility

• Adaptation actions (as an example) , semiarid)

• Extreme weather events

• Eradication of poverty
in general, Training & Qualification should be increased and better distributed .

Brazil should continue investing in global platforms that previlegiem the qualidde environmental, because the parents have this comparative advantage. in the field of actions of lightening and adaptation , the focus should be on developing sectors economic that may have advantages with qualification environmental, and the case of construction civil and wood consumption in Brazil are quite clear. while the country has the largest stock of wood on the planet, there is no public funding for wooden houses, or programs that encourage consumption, despite the fact that the country has 60% of the territory covered by forests. combine the increased use, and technology transformation , wood for construction civil will contribute to adaptation and lightening the changes climatic , improving the distribution of income (the forestry sector eh which creates more jobs for real invested), cultivation of biodiversity (in the world the species most conserved forest are those used in construction civil) and better performance economic of both sectors (wood eh material characteristics mechanical excellent, cheaper and available to be planted in almost all locations in Brazil, generating perspective the reduction of transport costs in the future with replacement of parts and maintenance of residences ). The premise must be rooted in ensuring competitiveness to environmental quality of production and PROVIDE the services . the principle general h to reduce emissions per capita in order to guarantee equal conditions for all.




Effective commitment from all countries, regardless of their degree of development for the relative reduction in an effective way , even if it is gradual of emissions, strongly include topics related to the control of commercial, industrial and residential effluents (basic sanitation plans with annual targets)
 
 
 
 
To answer this question, more time will be needed for further research and discussion.
 
1) In the view of the forest-based sector, Brazil's contribution to the new agreement must always be based on the principle of common but differentiated responsibilities. For that, the best metric is the one recommended by the “Brazilian proposal” originally presented in 1997 and recently presented (see comment on this point at the end of the mitigation block). We understand that in the context of the “Brazilian proposal”, the distribution of responsibilities between different countries becomes balanced, by definition.



2) In case of difficulties in negotiating or implementing the Brazilian proposal, we understand that Brazil is able to contribute with additional mitigation efforts, provided that they are based on absolute emissions growth (deviation from the growth curve) according to national socio-economic development priorities. .



3) Within the scope of a new agreement, it is essential that there are also market mechanisms (continuity of the CDM or something incremental based on the CDM, as justified at the end of the mitigation block and means of implementation), as well as other mechanisms that serve as means of implementation and as a form of economic compensation for national projects and actions.



4) As Brazilian commitments are increased in the context of multilateral and domestic agreements, it is essential that the mechanisms for consultation with society are also increased, especially with sectors of great potential or involved in mitigation actions. We have the perception that the difference between technical and political issues becomes more tenuous and that a deeper knowledge of the reality of specific sectors of the Brazilian economy is of great relevance for the formation of the country's negotiating position. It is important to have a permanent consultation mechanism.
1) It has been proven that many products produced in Brazil have less carbon intensity than products from other sources. This is due to our energy matrix, our agricultural productivity and the development of some local technologies. In the chemical industry, the development of products that capture carbon is a clear example of this type of solution. Brazil can position itself as a global supplier of this type of product, pushing its development through the low carbon economy. Public policies that favor this type of industrial growth should be developed and considered in an international position.

2 ) In general, commitments must be made in mitigation by integrating the institutions responsible for the energy theme in Brazil. It is important to consider the existence of the pre-salt in our operations. Renewable raw materials and energy should be seen as opportunities, and it is necessary to encourage instead of overtaxing sectors (through financing and tax exemptions) to increase the use of these materials and related technologies.

3) Brazil must work on climate change together with energy discussions. It is not possible to discuss mitigation and other actions without considering the growing demand for energy. Making commitments to mitigate emissions can go against the actions necessary to guarantee energy supply in the country and penalize the sector, harming the industry and the population at the end of the chain - and thus the economy. Brazil can take a stance towards demanding more from developed countries, continuing to seek ways to grow with less impact, implementing pioneering measures to encourage renewable sources and initiatives whose analysis of the cycle as a whole shows them to be more positive.
For purposes of defining contribution Nationally Determined, I consider that:



. the position of the Brazilian Government within the scope of the UNFCCC must be guided primarily by the Convention's major objective: stabilization of concentrations of greenhouse gases in the atmosphere at a level that prevents dangerous anthropic interference in the climate system; the scientific and political consensus defines 2 degrees Celsius of global warming as the relatively safe ceiling that reflects that objective; . the Nationally Determined Contribution intended by the Brazilian Government should not be conditional on those intended by any other UNFCCC signatory countries; . regardless of rules to be defined for allocating emission reduction targets between countries, all major emitters of greenhouse gases will have to substantially reduce their emissions in the post-2020 period in order to limit global warming to 2 degrees Celsius; . the set of scenarios of the IPCC AR5 that maximizes the possibilities of keeping the warming below the limit of 2 degrees Celsius corresponds to a maximum of global emissions of 20Gt CO2eq in 2050; with a projected global population of 9.5 million (World Bank), global emissions per capita should be between 1.0 and the maximum of 2.1 t CO2e / per capita in that year; it is estimated that Brazil will have 223 million inhabitants in 2050 (IBGE); the country's net emissions in that year must be less than 0.5 Gt CO2eq; . Mathews et al. (2014) indicate that Brazil has a historical responsibility of 4.9% in relation to the observed global warming caused by human actions, and is the 4th. most responsible for this heating; Höhne et al. (2013) propose that the reduction of emissions in the group of Latin American countries compatible with the limit of 2 degrees Celsius for 2030 is between 15% and 49% in relation to 2010 indexes, when analyzing various approaches for sharing mitigation efforts ; net Brazilian emissions in 2010 were of the order of 1.2 Gt CO2eq (MCTI); I therefore believe that the Brazilian target for 2030 should result in net emissions of greenhouse gases below 1 GtCO2eq in that year. To support the definition of its emission reduction goals, the Brazilian Government must carry out analyzes that consider different proposals for equitable allocation of mitigation efforts, presented by countries within the UNFCCC, observers and experts, including the Brazilian proposal on historical responsibilities , adjusted to assess the potential effect of cumulative emissions by country on increasing global temperature. It is fully feasible for Brazil to reduce its greenhouse gas emissions to levels well below 1 GtCO2eq in 2030. From the definition of appropriate policies, measures and investments, the country could achieve a reduction of up to 50% of its emissions in 2030, in relation to the 2010 indexes (1.2 Gt CO2eq). In order to promote the necessary reductions in greenhouse gas emissions according to its responsibility and capacity in the post-2020 period, it is essential that the country strategically incorporates the logic of development based on progressive reductions in greenhouse gas emissions. greenhouse and resilient to climate change in all its set of major development policies and plans.
































iteration between the various government agents, including discussion with society
Maintain the principle of common but differentiated responsibilities . Stimulus and subsidies for easier access to financial resources from FINEP, BNDES, GEF, etc. , for research, development and implementation of projects related to energy efficiency and cleaner technologies and sustainable buildings. It also encourages the reduction of the birth rate and family planning.
 
 
Maintain the principle of common but differentiated responsibility.

Policies to control demographic growth.

Encouraging the reduction of birth rates and family planning.
Maintain the criteria of common but differentiated responsibilities . Put as priority the development of infrastructure that will have an important impact on the generation of wealth and the optimization of transport and energy generation, with a consequent reduction in emissions. The reduction in the Brazil cost, coupled with an adjustment of the tax burden, may make the necessary resources available for investments in a lower carbon economy, without impacting other growth vectors. The differentiated practices (clean energy generation, planted area , natural resources ) of the country must be observed.
Maintain the principle of common but differentiated responsibility.

Encouraging the reduction of birth rates and family planning.
Maintain the principle of common but differentiated responsibility.

Stimulating the reduction of birth rates and family planning
 
View previous comments
Releasing the cannabis would be a huge step against emisão CO2
Maintain the principle of common but differentiated responsibility.

Encouraging the reduction of birth rates and family planning.
 
Brazil's policy on this issue should not go into the merit of reciprocity and bargaining. Today, we have the economic capacity and political maturity to assist more developed countries in the effort to face the climate challenge, with due regard.
The construction of the contributions that Brazil will make must guarantee economic and social development and ensure the country's competitiveness through actions that include, for example:

• Food

security

• Energy security • Water management

• Urban mobility

• Adaptation actions (as an example) , semiarid)

• Extreme weather events

• Eradication of poverty

 
Based on the premise that the 2015 Agreement will have different contributions, it will be necessary to have a robust "review" system that guarantees the transparency and comparability of contributions. For this, special attention must be paid to MRV models (current and future).
 
 
Maintain the principle of common but

differentiated responsibility . Policies to control

demographic growth . Encouraging the reduction of birth rates and

family planning.
1) In the view of the forest-based sector, Brazil's contribution to the new agreement must always be based on the principle of common but differentiated responsibilities. For that, the best metric is the one recommended by the “Brazilian proposal” originally presented in 1997 and recently presented (see comment on this point at the end of the mitigation block). We understand that in the context of the “Brazilian proposal”, the distribution of responsibilities between different countries becomes balanced, by definition.

2) In case of difficulties in negotiating or implementing the Brazilian proposal, we understand that Brazil is able to contribute with additional mitigation efforts, provided that they are based on absolute emissions growth (deviation from the growth curve) according to national socio-economic development priorities. .

3) Within the scope of a new agreement, it is essential that there are also market mechanisms (continuity of the CDM or something incremental based on the CDM, as justified at the end of the mitigation block and means of implementation), as well as other mechanisms that serve as means of implementation and as a form of economic compensation for national projects and actions.

4) As Brazilian commitments are increased in the context of multilateral and domestic agreements, it is essential that the mechanisms for consultation with society are also increased, especially with sectors of great potential or involved in mitigation actions. We have the perception that the difference between technical and political issues becomes more tenuous and that a deeper knowledge of the reality of specific sectors of the Brazilian economy is of great relevance for the formation of the country's negotiating position. It is important to have a permanent consultation mechanism.
1) In the sector's view, Brazil's contribution to the new agreement must always be based on the principle of common but differentiated responsibilities. For that, the best metric is the one recommended by the “Brazilian proposal” originally presented in 1997 and recently presented (see comment on this point at the end of the mitigation block). We understand that in the context of the “Brazilian proposal”, the distribution of responsibilities between different countries becomes balanced, by definition.

2) In case of difficulties in negotiating or implementing the Brazilian proposal, we understand that Brazil is able to contribute with additional mitigation efforts, provided that they are based on absolute emissions growth (deviation from the growth curve) according to national socioeconomic development priorities. .

3) Within the scope of a new agreement, it is essential that there are also market mechanisms (continuity of the CDM or something incremental based on the CDM, as justified at the end of the mitigation block and means of implementation), as well as other mechanisms that serve as means of implementation and as a form of economic compensation for national projects and actions.

4) As Brazilian commitments are increased in the context of multilateral and domestic agreements, it is essential that the mechanisms for consultation with society are also increased, especially with sectors of great potential or involved in mitigation actions. We have the perception that the difference between technical and political issues becomes more tenuous and that a deeper knowledge of the reality of specific sectors of the Brazilian economy is of great relevance for the formation of the country's negotiating position. It is important to have a permanent consultation mechanism.
In Brazil, the diversity and wide availability of renewable natural resources throughout the territory represents a comparative advantage due to the possibility of expanding its industry and economy with low carbon intensity.

However, converting this comparative advantage into a competitive advantage requires the global community to adopt compatible and comparable carbon pricing policies , complemented by market and flexibility mechanisms capable of channeling investments to developing countries. Therefore, an international agreement capable of limiting climate change to two degrees Celsius as agreed by the international community, must support the Brazilian position.

To finance its clean development, Brazil and other emerging countries cannot rely solely on the transfer of resources and technologies from developed countries, but the high intensity of financial resources for clean development justifies the use of flexible mechanisms capable of promoting mitigation investments. in Brazil and other developing countries. The fact that the marginal mitigation cost of these countries is much lower than that of developed countries means that this cooperation can be considered as a benefit for both sides.
No comments.
 
More action.
 
PREMISES



There are substantial technological advances in countries such as United Kingdom , Australia Canada, USA and Nordic countries in the capture and industrial use of gases such as CO2; These technologies must be made available to Brazil and developing countries;

Brazil must be proactive in the effort to disseminate HCFC and CFC refrigerant substitution policies. The Montreal Protocol has evolved slowly. CO2 is a refrigerant gas with excellent thermodynamic properties, its incorporation in industrial and commercial refrigeration processes must be accelerated through the establishment of public incentive goals and policies; This use of CO2 in industrial and commercial refrigeration can reduce food, meat and fruit waste; The application of CO2 in bulk silos , as in Europe and the United States, can avoid the use of fumigation with products that leave toxic residues in grains;

Emissions directly associated with the use of fossil fuels must be taxed so that the environmental externalities of renewable fuels such as ethanol are valued.

Brazil and the other countries must recognize that health costs with hospital admissions caused by respiratory morbidities resulting from the use of fossil fuels such as gasoline and diesel are high;

Brazil should discourage the generation of electric energy by burning fuel oils and, at the same time, encourage the generation of bioelectricity with the use of sugar cane biomass;




