The time horizon will invariably be conditioned to the quantification of the emission reduction. If it is a sectoral one, I believe that investments in structural modifications are difficult to execute and have a longer maturation period, in this sense I believe that multiple periods should be applied according to the quantification modality and execution time of the actions.
 
 
 
 
 
Investment in renewable energy and family farming can decrease CO2 emissions and increase the country's food and energy security
The contribution must be permanent, with a revaluation of the goals every 5 years.
 
 
It is important to foresee effective policies aimed at developing renewable and clean energy sources.
 
 
 
 
Regarding mitigation, the approach chosen by Brazil in the period up to 2020 proved to be successful not only due to the scale of the results already achieved, but also due to the construction opportunities for the different sectors.
One must always try to increase the efficiency of human activities that present a high degree of waste at all levels, not only in energy consumption, but also in the waste of primary finite material resources. Improve and increase recycling processes. The time horizon of these processes is perpetual, as resources are finite.
Mitigation initiatives have the potential to open up new investment opportunities, and should not be seen "a priori" as limiting economic development. Sectoral policies can support specific actions in sectors with the greatest potential for reduction, but they must be combined with general goals that provide better benchmarks.
 
 
One form of mitigation is massive investment in solar energy and subsidies for treatment of individual and collective domestic sewage.
I believe that Brazil could follow the European path, and furthermore encourage the carbon market, associating itself with exchange mechanisms already established in Europe, USA and Japan, for example.
 
 
1) Brazil does not make a sufficient contribution. The New Forest Code, deforestation and the abandonment of the biodiesel program hinder the country's contribution.
 
 
The issues highlighted are those that are considered to best represent sustainable development (economic, social and environmental), with a view to health care and its vulnerability. As for the time horizon, it is believed that in the short term it is possible to monitor actions and results, being able to review or revert in a timely manner.
considering sustainable development in its 3 pillars (economic, social and environmental), with a view to preventing and maximizing health. In the short term, it is possible to monitor the actions and their results more effectively.
 
 
 
 
On the current effort: It is a fact that Brazil has reduced its greenhouse gas emissions significantly in recent years, mainly due to the reduction of emissions associated with deforestation in the Amazon. However, despite much lower rates than previous years, the loss of area of ​​native forests is still significant and the country is one of the largest emitters of greenhouse gases due to changes in land use. In addition, the country has as one of the objectives of its National Plan on Climate Change the elimination of the net loss of the forest cover area, an objective that, according to the National Plan, should be reached in 2015. And the emissions of all other sectors (energy, agriculture, industrial processes and waste) have been increasing over time. There is, therefore, room for reducing emissions in all sectors of our economy, which should be reflected in the definition of an ambitious Nationally Determined Contribution for Brazil for the post-2020 period.



On possible impacts of adopting mitigation measures: The positive effects for the planet's climate, the benefits for increasing the efficiency of different sectors of our economy, the generation of jobs related to clean technologies, and the savings generated by the reduction of impacts that could be caused by climate change, as a result of inaction, will be much higher, over time, than the cost of investing in mitigation actions. And there are some mitigation options that can have negative abatement costs, and social co-benefits, especially in urban areas. The concept of low carbon development must be explored.



About the modality. The IPCC message on its 5th. Assessment Report is exhaustive - it is still possible to achieve the objective of limiting global warming to 2 degrees Celsius. But for this to happen, there must be a great effort of collective and coordinated mitigation among nations. Global emissions need to peak in the coming years. And then follow a path of accelerated progressive reductions to make the necessary actions feasible in time to prevent global warming from exceeding two degrees. It is necessary, therefore, that countries commit themselves to emission reduction or limitation targets for the whole economy that are quantifiable in absolute terms, in terms of total emissions in tons of CO2eq. Sectoral actions or policies - and coordinated with subnational and local governments - must be the means to achieve the absolute goals, can support the goal, and must be included in the detailing and registration of “Nationally Determined Contributions” with the UNFCCC.



Nationally Determined Contribution Period or Duration. The negotiation of goals for a period of 5 years presupposes that a new negotiation occurs, perhaps even before the beginning of the term of that commitment period, about future goals, which can result in delays and important time gaps. On the other hand, a 10-year commitment period is too long to be able to demand actions and results from countries at the beginning of the same period (which is essential for progress to be made quickly worldwide in reducing greenhouse gas emissions. greenhouse effect). ICLEI follows the position of the Climate Observatory and considers the best path to be the definition of 10-year commitment periods, the first period being from January 1, 2021 to December 31, 2030, and recommends setting a goal emission reduction or emission limit for 2030 and an intermediate target for 2025, with a mechanism that allows the revision of these targets in the light of the latest science, such as new results of the IPCC's work, whether new evaluation reports or specific analyzes ( sectoral, regional, etc.), in order to ensure the maintenance of the global emissions trajectory within the limit of 2 degrees Celsius.
Current effort. It is a fact that Brazil has reduced its greenhouse gas emissions significantly in recent years, mainly due to the reduction of emissions associated with deforestation in the Amazon. However, despite much lower rates than previous years, the loss of area of ​​native forests is still significant and the country is one of the largest emitters of greenhouse gases due to changes in land use. In addition, the country has as one of the objectives of its National Plan on Climate Change the elimination of the net loss of the forest cover area, an objective that, according to the National Plan, should be reached in 2015. And the emissions of all other sectors (energy, agriculture, industrial processes and waste) have been increasing over time. There is, therefore, room for reducing emissions in all sectors of our economy, which should be reflected in the definition of an ambitious Nationally Determined Contribution for Brazil for the post-2020 period.



Possible impacts of adopting mitigation measures. The positive effects on the planet's climate, the benefits for increasing the efficiency of different sectors of our economy, the generation of jobs related to clean technologies, and the savings generated by the reduction of the impacts that could be caused by climate change, as a result inaction, will be much higher, over time, than the cost of investing in mitigation actions. And there are some mitigation options that can have a negative rebate cost.



Mode. The IPCC message on its 5th. Assessment Report is exhaustive - it is still possible to achieve the objective of limiting global warming to 2 degrees Celsius. But for this to happen, there must be a great effort of collective and coordinated mitigation among nations. Global emissions need to peak in the coming years. And then follow a path of accelerated progressive reductions to make the necessary actions feasible in time to prevent global warming from exceeding two degrees. It is necessary, therefore, that countries commit themselves to emission reduction or limitation targets for the whole economy that are quantifiable in absolute terms, in terms of total emissions in tons of CO2eq. Sectoral actions or policies must be the means to achieve the absolute goals, they can support the goal, and they must be included in the details and registration of the “Nationally Determined Contributions” with the UNFCCC.



Nationally Determined Contribution Period or Duration. The negotiation of goals for a period of 5 years presupposes that a new negotiation occurs, perhaps even before the commencement of that commitment period, on future goals, which can result in delays and important time gaps. On the other hand, a 10-year commitment period is too long to be able to demand actions and results from countries at the beginning of the same period (which is essential for progress to be made quickly worldwide in reducing greenhouse gas emissions. greenhouse effect). We consider the 10-year commitment period to be the best path, the first period being from January 1, 2021 to December 31, 2030, and recommends setting an emission reduction target or emission limit for 2030 and an intermediate target for 2025, with a mechanism that allows the revision of these targets in the light of the latest science, such as new results of the IPCC's work, whether new evaluation reports or specific analyzes (sectorial, regional etc.), so that ensure the maintenance of the global emissions trajectory within the limit of 2 degrees Celsius.

 
it is possible to reconcile any form of development with practices that are less aggressive to nature.
One must always try to increase the efficiency of human activities that present a high degree of waste at all levels, not only in energy consumption, but also in the waste of finite primary material resources. Improve and increase recycling processes. The time horizon of these processes is perpetual, as resources are finite.
 
some of the alternative responses are biased,
 
Brazil has demonstrated capacity for planning and management by reducing emissions from deforestation and fires. These gains were achieved without reducing our capacity for growth. In other words, the use of technology and better management of resources in any sector can bring significant reductions in CO2 emissions.
 

Adaptation plans can be diverse, however, taking into account that climate and even adaptation affect transnational geographical situations, such as p. eg, the containment of a river that passes through many countries in order to create reservoirs against possible extended periods of drought, or even more drastic actions of climate engineering, it is necessary to bear in mind the magnitude of the adaptation action that you want to carry out. In this sense, it is necessary to seek good practices regarding the removal of populations and risk in coastal areas or those affected by extreme weather events, in addition to cooperation protocols in cases of mass migration, as has been occurring between Brazil and Haiti. One cannot ignore the fact that humanity has to consider, by the principle of prevention, the possibility of displacement of entire populations from island and coastal regions, or transformed into deserts, to other areas already inhabited with diverse culture and geography.
 
we must concentrate actions on urban centers, with measures to regulate urban land use and strengthen local civil defenses
 
Change in the rainfall regime, with greater intensity of droughts and floods - as well as an eventual increase in sea level.
 
 
In Brazil, agriculture is the most worrying economic sector in relation to environmental discussions and climate change.



Livestock, specifically, is one of the main responsible for burning, for the purpose of opening pasture.
 
 
 
The main areas of concern of the RS Environment Secretariat are related to the effects of extreme natural events and the loss of biodiversity.
The main areas of concern are the suburbs due to the large number of irregular housing, as well as places that suffer from a restrictive rainfall regime, as the situation is likely to get worse in the coming years.
 
I think it is the water resources issues
 
The term climate change is a redundancy, since the climate has changed since the beginning of the planet, 4.5 billion years ago. Climate change is normal, it is what has always happened in Earth's history. If it seems to change then it would be worrying. And as it has changed and will continue to change, the question of adaptation is perhaps the most important and will require a collective global effort, as the planet has no borders. Certain places will become inhospitable and others will be more appropriate for life. Portions of land (islands, etc.) will disappear (by the tectonic movement itself) and others will appear. Means will change. This is the history of the planet and there is not much that can be done. The evolution of species shows that those that survived were those that adapted to the environment.
Deforestation, urban occupation of watercourse margins, channeling of streams and rivers, air and water pollution.
 
 
 
Impacts on poverty levels and increased vulnerability of these populations.
 
 
 
plan combined with Monitoring of impacts observed at national and local level
 
Environmental disasters and their health consequences. The Ministry of Health is concerned with Assistance, Surveillance and Health Promotion, among others, considered to be of paramount importance, as well as attentive to the possibility of acting on resilience conditions.
Surveillance, assistance and health promotion to overcome resilience issues in the face of climate change.
 
 
 
1) water systems, considered drinking water as a scarce and strategic input for the future of humanity

2) food security

3) prevention of environmental disasters.

4) alteration of the world energy matrix

In this last item, the adoption of low carbon technologies for energy production is easy to implement, see the mandatory requirement for solar energy generation solutions in MCMV programs. Other initiatives of this kind, or even extension, could prosper more strongly. 
An adequate strategy for adapting to climate change for Brazil, as well as for any other nation, requires the identification and assessment of vulnerabilities and opportunities for adaptation and increased resilience, both in regional and local terms and within the scope of different sectors of the economy. In a nation that is territorially extensive and with immense social, cultural and species diversity like our country, it is critical to consider the insertion of adaptation strategies based on ecosystems and communities in a national strategy on adaptation, in order to empower communities and local populations. to deal with and reduce their vulnerabilities, and for the good management of well-preserved natural ecosystems to contribute to increased resilience in the face of climate change.



Local governments are a key player in this regard, they must be involved and trained, as is the case with the UNISDR 'My City is Getting Ready' campaign, of which ICLEI is a global partner and that which promotes the Charter for Adaptation of Durban (http://www.durbanadaptationcharter.org/), adopted by local governments at COP17. Although the international negotiations on climate change and Disaster Risk Reduction take place on different platforms, both recognize the need to integrate these concepts in the implementation. In cities, the need and possibility of integrating planning for adaptation and resilience is evident. The first commitments of the Durban Adaptation Charter can be fulfilled through the implementation of the 'My City is Getting Ready' campaign, which in turn recommends deepening the commitment of the participating cities by signing the Charter.



Accompanying the Climate Observatory, ICLEI considers it important that the Brazilian Government register with the UNFCCC its National Plan for Adaptation to Climate Change (currently under development). Although this Plan is not the subject of this consultation, it must be constructed, also considering the recommendations and guidelines of the UNFCCC, such as those made by the UNFCCC in its Decision 5 / CP.17, which demands that the National Adaptation Plans must include objectives of reducing the country's vulnerability to the impacts of climate change, through the construction of adaptive capacity and resilience, and of enabling the integration of the logic of adaptation to climate change, in a coherent way, into policies, programs and actions, new and existing , and determined development processes and strategies, in all relevant sectors and at different levels (national, regional, local, etc.), as needed. And it recommends that the National Plan include targets, indicators for monitoring and evaluation and means of implementation.
An adequate strategy for adapting to climate change for Brazil, as well as for any other nation, requires the identification and assessment of vulnerabilities and opportunities for adaptation and increased resilience, both in regional and local terms and within the scope of different sectors of the economy. In a nation that is territorially extensive and with immense social, cultural and species diversity like our country, it is critical to consider the insertion of adaptation strategies based on ecosystems and communities in a national strategy on adaptation, in order to empower communities and local populations. to deal with and reduce their vulnerabilities, and for the good management of well-preserved natural ecosystems to contribute to increased resilience in the face of climate change. IPAM considers it important that the Brazilian Government register with the UNFCCC its National Plan for Adaptation to Climate Change (currently under development). Although this Plan is not the subject of this consultation, it must be constructed, also considering the recommendations and guidelines of the UNFCCC, such as those made by the UNFCCC in its Decision 5 / CP.17, which demands that the National Adaptation Plans must include objectives of reducing the country's vulnerability to the impacts of climate change, through the construction of adaptive capacity and resilience, and of enabling the integration of the logic of adaptation to climate change, in a coherent way, into policies, programs and actions, new and existing , and determined development processes and strategies, in all relevant sectors and at different levels (national, regional, local, etc.), as needed. And it recommends that the National Plan include targets, indicators for monitoring and evaluation and means of implementation. It is very important that the National Strategy is able to prioritize the most vulnerable groups that need faster and more effective means of adaptation, and that depend to a large extent on public policies, such as indigenous peoples and family farming.
Health education.
The term climate change is a redundancy, since the climate has changed since the beginning of the planet, 4.5 billion years ago. Climate change is normal, it is what has always happened in Earth's history. If it stopped changing then it would be worrying. And as it has changed and will continue to change, the question of adaptation is perhaps the most important and will require a collective global effort, as the planet has no borders. Certain places will become inhospitable and others will be more appropriate for life. Portions of land (islands, etc.) will disappear (due to the tectonic movement and eventual displacements of water bodies) and others will appear. Means will change. This is the history of the planet and there is not much to do. The evolution of species shows that those that survived were the ones that best adapted to changes in the environment.
Northeastern Brazil, extreme weather effects, rising sea levels, decreasing biodiversity
monitoring impacts is necessary in connection with a national adaptation plan and strategy
We have an Article: Climate change and adaptation in Brazil: a critical analysis

Martin Obermaier and Luiz Pinguelli Rosa, with the aforementioned authors, published in scielo, which translates the theme on screen a little. 
Coastal areas, notably those subject to landslide events, are vulnerable and require monitoring.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Countries should stop using the unreasonable and unfounded excuse for climate change (as currently posed) to obtain resources. The changes that will be required in economic and social terms are the very door of opportunity for development. Whoever finds the best efficiency path will have the best result. Development is not linear and it is not necessarily necessary to go through all the stages of those who have developed to get there. I believe that the impediment is much more cultural and social than economic and technological. The challenges of the environmental changes that humanity will undergo will depend on mutual cooperation, if we are to survive as a civilization.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
8) The commitment of each country must be proportional to the losses that its actions bring to the climate.
the questions answered as "None of the above" in this block, indicate the absence of an alternative that matches my assessment and all the suggested answers direct the responses to a position of extreme subordination and dependence of the country on international resources, which I consider unacceptable
 
 
 
 
 
The Brazilian commitment to support other developing countries in the implementation of their respective mitigation and / or adaptation actions does not necessarily have to be financial (training actions, scientific and technological collaboration; diffusion of methodologies, can compose the support actions).
 
On orienting Brazil's position in defining its contribution to the new agreement: Brazil is a large emerging economy, which has the capacity to direct its own resources to its policies, measures and actions for mitigation and adaptation to climate change, and which should eliminate extreme poverty by 2020. A significant amount of resources is now allocated to mitigation and adaptation policies and actions. We have, for example, a set of Sectorial Mitigation and Adaptation Plans, which have federal budget resources for their execution. And Brazil has the National Climate Change Fund, which finances some important adaptation actions and subsidizes the elaboration of the National Adaptation Plan. The vision of a low carbon and resilient development must also be transversally incorporated into national investments, especially in infrastructure. On the other hand, the cooperation offered by other countries to develop new approaches to address these issues should not be ignored.



On the sources of funds: Negotiation within the UNFCCC to define emission reduction targets for all countries, for the post-2020 period, includes a wide debate on equitable distribution of commitments and targets. Therefore, the target to be defined for Brazil should, as well as for the other countries, correspond to its share of responsibility and its capacity for action. Brazil is a large emerging economy, capable of making significant commitments to reduce and limit its greenhouse gas emissions, starting in 2020.



About South-South cooperation: Brazil already develops cooperation actions with others developing countries, especially with less developed countries, in important areas, such as monitoring vegetation cover. This cooperation does not depend solely and exclusively on the existence of external resources. Therefore, it is recommended that the country cooperate, to the extent of its capacity, in different ways, such as training and transfer of knowledge and technology. However, if there are resources in the scope of international cooperation, the UNFCCC and the Green Climate Fund, these cooperation actions can be intensified. Decentralized cooperation must also be recognized and monitored by the national government.
Orientation to the positioning of Brazil in defining its contribution to the New Agreement. Brazil is a large emerging economy, which has the capacity to direct its own resources to its policies, measures and actions to mitigate and adapt to climate change, and which is expected to eliminate extreme poverty by 2020. A significant amount of resources is now allocated in policies and mitigation and adaptation actions. We have, for example, a set of Sectorial Mitigation and Adaptation Plans, which have federal budget resources for their execution. And Brazil has the National Climate Change Fund, which finances some important adaptation actions and subsidizes the elaboration of the National Adaptation Plan.



Resource sources. Negotiation within the UNFCCC to define emission reduction targets for all countries, for the post-2020 period, includes a wide debate on equitable distribution of commitments and targets. Therefore, the target to be defined for Brazil should, as well as for the other countries, correspond to its share of responsibility and its capacity for action. Brazil is a large emerging economy, capable of making significant commitments to reduce and limit its greenhouse gas emissions, starting in 2020. External resources, arising from a REDD + mechanism under the UNFCCC, by recognizing the performance of the country in reducing emissions from deforestation and forest degradation, may eventually contribute to the country's progress in its efforts in an area that already has important resources for international cooperation (see Amazon Fund, which has resources from Norway and Germany).



South-South cooperation. Brazil already develops cooperation actions with other developing countries, especially with less developed countries, in important areas, such as monitoring of vegetation cover. This cooperation does not depend solely and exclusively on the existence of external resources. Therefore, it is recommended that the country cooperate, to the extent of its capacity, in different ways, such as training and transfer of knowledge and technology. However, if there are resources in the scope of international cooperation, the UNFCCC and the Green Climate Fund, these cooperation actions can be intensified.
 
Countries should stop using the unreasonable and unfounded excuse for climate change (as currently posed) to obtain resources. The changes that will be required in economic and social terms are the very door of opportunity for development. Whoever finds the best efficiency path will have the best result. Development is not linear and it is not necessarily necessary to go through all the stages of those who have developed to get there. I believe that the impediment is much more cultural and social than economic and technological. The challenges of the environmental changes that humanity will undergo will depend on mutual cooperation, if we are to survive as a civilization.
 
The country is not in the same condition as the poorest developing countries - there is an inconsistency in this block of questions, in a question answers are proposed indicating the SOUTH-SOUTH cooperation, and in a previous answer, only responses are indicated indicating Brazil needs interactional support to act ... that is, the responses always induce in one direction ...
There is still a lot to do, so that we can move forward, having commitment / responsibility is of importance, in such a situated agenda of actions, in which we want to meet the goals, for feeding the systems, in improving the indicators, where they will go. in the future, the improvement of the quality of life of people, and of the planet ......, political will and education for the people, are relevant ........, for the actions to take place!
Brazil wants a seat on the UN Security Council. Thus, it must make commitments to other less favored nations without waiting for help from more developed nations.
 
 
The Brazilian contribution to the mitigation of global climate change until 2020, must be properly recognized by the UNFCCC and rewarded. Failure to recognize national mitigation efforts in the LULUCF sector by 2020 can have serious financial consequences for the country, possibly affecting its development potential and even the commercial area if areas such as agriculture for example are included in possible international goals. Brazil has already done more than all developed countries, we need to improve our communication so that this becomes more evident.
 
 
 
Brazil must demand greater commitment from developed countries to reduce greenhouse gases and support sustainable development processes for developing countries
 
Common responsibilities, however, differentiated. Search for metrics that reflect the polluter pays principle. Leadership position.
Reduce Federal, State and Municipal taxation levied on:

Renewable Energy Generation such as WIND ENERGY and SOLAR PANELS.

Idem Water heating by Solar Panels.

Same as Hybrid and Electric Vehicles.

Ditto for Bicycles and Electric Bicycles.

Ditto for Public Transport Systems

Powered by Electricity.
Regardless of the contribution of other countries, Brazil needs to do its part in reducing carbon emissions. International cooperation between southern countries, among which Brazil may emerge as a new leadership, can be decisive for the new geopolitical moment we are experiencing
The developed countries have in the tertiary sector (especially: R&D sectors; Informatics; Financial) the main economic activities in relation to the GDP of these countries. This is only possible, since people were liberated from the primary and secondary sectors of the economy, through technological advances.



In this way, the economic activities of the tertiary sectors often have a reduced environmental impact. Because they are more intellectual activities and produce products that are often intangible.



Thus, the assessment of contribution by sector of the economy should consider the wealth produced with the number of people employed by this sector, which would be a way of diluting the necessary costs of climate change for all sectors in a more balanced way.



If the costs are focused only on economic activities that have a direct environmental impact, then those economic activities may cease to be economically viable or the prices of their products will rise in such a way that the poorest population will again be the most impacted.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Actions and decisions need to be taken taking into account poverty / vulnerability reduction plans / projects.
 
 
Brazil must:



1) adopt renewable energies and charge them from other countries;

2) discourage the use of private cars, instead of reducing their IPI;

3) to actually fight deforestation;

4) tighten the deal with the ruralist bench in the Legislative.
 
The insertion of concerns about the adverse impacts of Climate Change on Human Health.



Practically neglected topic in the negotiation of the new agreement under the Durban Platform.
 
 
 
 
 
 
For the purpose of defining the Nationally Determined Contribution, ICLEI follows the position of the Climate Observatory when considering that:



The position of the Brazilian Government within the scope of the UNFCCC should be guided primarily by the main objective of the Convention: stabilization of greenhouse gas concentrations in the atmosphere at a level that would prevent dangerous anthropic interference in the climate system; the scientific and political consensus defines 2 degrees Celsius of global warming as the relatively safe ceiling that reflects that objective;



The Contribution intended by the Brazilian Government must not be conditioned to those intended by any of the UNFCCC signatory countries;



Regardless of rules to be set for allocating emission reduction targets between countries, all major emitters of greenhouse gases will have to substantially reduce their emissions in the post-2020 period in order to limit global warming to 2 degrees Celsius;



The set of scenarios of the IPCC AR5 that maximizes the possibilities of keeping the warming below the limit of 2 degrees Celsius corresponds to a maximum of global emissions of 20Gt CO2eq in 2050; with a projected global population of 9.5 million inhabitants (World Bank), global emissions per capita should be between 1.0 and the maximum of 2.1 Gt CO2e in that year; it is estimated that Brazil will have 223 million inhabitants in 2050 (IBGE); the country's net emissions in that year must be less than 0.5 Gt CO2eq;



Mathews et al. (2014) indicate that Brazil has a historical responsibility of 4.9% in relation to the observed global warming caused by human actions, and is the 4th. most responsible for this heating; Höhne et al. (2013) propose that the reduction of emissions in the group of Latin American countries compatible with the limit of 2 degrees Celsius for 2030 is between 15% and 49% in relation to 2010 indexes, when analyzing various approaches for sharing mitigation efforts ; net Brazilian emissions in 2010 were of the order of 1.2 Gt CO2eq (MCTI);



Simulations made based on the application of the methodology proposed by the Climate Equity Reference Calculator (EcoEquity and Stockholm Environment Institute), indicate that an adequate target for Brazil for 2030, could be around 0.6 GtCO2eq, or even lower than this value. , according to the weight given to the indicators;



ICLEI, like the Climate Observatory, considers, therefore, that the Brazilian target for 2030 should result in net emissions of greenhouse gases below 1 GtCO2eq that year.



To support the definition of its emission reduction goals, the Brazilian Government must carry out analyzes that consider different proposals for equitable allocation of mitigation efforts, presented by countries within the UNFCCC, observers and experts, including the Brazilian proposal on historical responsibilities , adjusted to assess the potential effect of cumulative emissions by country on increasing global temperature.



ICLEI, like the Climate Observatory, considers it fully feasible for Brazil to reduce its greenhouse gas emissions to levels well below 1 GtCO2eq in 2030. Based on the definition of appropriate policies, measures and investments, the country could reach a reduction of up to 50% of its emissions in 2030, in relation to the 2010 indexes (1.2 Gt CO2eq).



In order to promote the necessary reductions in greenhouse gas emissions according to its responsibility and capacity in the post-2020 period, it is essential that the country strategically incorporates the logic of development based on progressive reductions in greenhouse gas emissions. greenhouse and resilient to climate change in all its set of major policies and development plans, as well as promote proper coordination with subnational and local policies and plans.

 
 
 
Unfortunately, the climate debate is distorted by incontrovertible arguments that are conveniently ignored. The scientific question is far from being resolved. Unfortunately the issue has become political, with the IPCC itself admitting that the Group I report will be adjusted to be consistent with the summary for decision makers, that is, science will conform to the policy. They should create the day without gravity, it would be enough for 100% of scientists to decide that there will be no gravity on a certain day, I am sure that the laws of nature and physics will obey. Time and resources are lost behind a non-existent villain who does not control the planet's climate. Efforts should be focused on improving efficiency in the use of resources and recycling and decreasing waste and pollution (remembering that carbon dioxide is not a polluting gas!). Pollution, in a broad sense, not only by toxic gases (of which I emphasize carbon dioxide is not part), but liquids and other toxic elements, a by-product of human activities that contaminate soil and water and contribute to a deterioration in the quality of life and reduction of the already scarce possibilities of habitable zones on the planet (less than 10% of the Earth's surface). The pillar of carbon dioxide demonization is very fragile. Contrary to what is in your glossary, the greenhouse effect does not stem from “the absorption of solar radiation reflected on the planet's surface by gases present in the atmosphere, heating the Earth's surface”. Some trace gases present in the atmosphere (with the exception of the constant formation and depletion of ozone) do not absorb “solar radiation reflected on the planet's surface”, but rather the radiation emitted by that surface after its heating. The energy eventually absorbed is converted into kinetic energy that eventually dissipates (entropy) into heat, isobarically, that is, for all sides. It is important to remember that part of the solar energy that reaches Earth is used in the vital process of photosynthesis and also for the warming of the oceans (2/3 of the planet's surface).

Human (recorded) history is very short. Even in the period in which we live (Holocene) there were several climatic changes, although certainly much milder than in previous times. The planet and the universe, however, are not standing still. Current scientific knowledge is still insufficient to account for all the complexities and variables of the climate. Efforts and resources would be better spent and would bring results if invested in other objectives and not after something that has never been proven, based on flawed assumptions. New and different renewable energy sources are essential and adaptation is crucial. Of course, in fact, no one wants to solve anything. The consolation is that Nature's judgment does not fail. Changes will come and no one will be prepared because they have wasted time and resources behind fallacies. The Sahara was not always desert and the Amazon was not always forest. The environments will change again. Human arrogance, as always, to think that he possesses all this power. Of course, hypocrisy was also lacking, Germany and Japan investing heavily in thermoelectric plants and even Brazil, where thermoelectric plants were not heard. Obviously, as everyone knows, these discussions about the environment really serve to divert attention and hide objectives. Likewise, this text of mine is also useless, but I couldn't help expressing my opinion, since it was being requested, about unnecessary meetings of failed organizations.
 
Brsil is one of the largest economies on the planet, in development, and can initiate more concrete actions that guide us to take, in the near future, more effective actions for GHG reductions.
I see in the book: Education in human rights and diversity: interdisciplinary dialogues

/ Mara Rejane Ribeiro, Getulio Ribeiro. - Maceió: EDUFAL, 2012.

704 pag. : grafs. . and tabs, to quote from Gramsci: Create a new culture not signific just do individually desco Bertas 'original', means, also, and above all, have spread truths critically discoveries, 'socialize them', so to speak; and, therefore, transforming them into bases of vital actions, in an element of coordination and of intellectual and moral order (Gramsci, 1999; 95/1981, p. 13)., a translation of what is perceived as necessary to the subject on screen / staff.
Without a doubt it is sustainability.
The comparison of mitigation efforts should be based on the differentiation of commitments, considering the attribution of responsibilities to countries for climate change and using an objective criterion to do so. The metric for climate change, which is global in nature, must be an increase in the average global surface temperature. Therefore, the objective estimate of the contribution of countries to the increase in the average global surface temperature is an element that can support the formulation of policies in the context of international negotiations on climate change. Among other justifications, it is noteworthy that the global long-term objective was defined at the Cancun COP in terms of temperature (the increase in the average global temperature should be below 2 degrees Celsius compared to pre-industrial levels). The historical perspective must be considered. In addition, the long-term global objective could be considered from the perspective of apportionments of that objective (partial objectives or fractions of temperature increase per decade) with periodic evaluations every decade, with the possibility of redefinition depending on advances in scientific knowledge and the degree of achievement of the mitigation objectives.

 





